LET’S GET OUT!
MASTER DOCUMENT

Platform Specification v1.0

1. Platform Purpose
Core Objective

Let’s Get Out! is a platform enabling visitors to discover places through guided experiences, delivered in three forms:

Virtual visits
downloadable multimedia experiences
Online guided visits
real-time tours via video
Live guided visits
physical tours with guides

The platform connects:

Visitors
Guides
Tour operators / institutions

and provides tools for:

content hosting
booking management
payment
guide revenue sharing
discovery of experiences
2. Key Platform Principles
Principle 1 — Experience-First Design

The platform is centered around visits, not guides.

A guide may create multiple visits.

Each visit is an independent commercial product.

Principle 2 — Multi-Modal Visits

Each visit supports one of three delivery modes:

Mode	Description
Virtual	pre-recorded visit downloaded to device
Online	real-time video session
Live	in-person visit

Each mode has different infrastructure and booking logic.

Principle 3 — Geographic Discovery

Visitors can discover visits via:

map
city
category
guide
popularity
Principle 4 — Guide Revenue Share

Guides earn revenue proportional to:

number of purchases
popularity of their visit
engagement metrics
Principle 5 — Progressive Marketplace

Deployment in two phases.

Phase 1

curated guides
platform controlled content

Phase 2

open guide onboarding
self-published visits
3. User Types
3.1 Visitors

Consumers of visits.

Capabilities:

browse visits
purchase visits
book guided sessions
download virtual tours
join live/online sessions
rate guides
3.2 Guides

Content creators and tour operators.

Capabilities:

create visits
upload media
schedule tours
interact with visitors
receive revenue
3.3 Platform Admin

Platform operators.

Capabilities:

approve guides
curate visits
manage payments
manage disputes
manage content moderation
4. Visit Types
4.1 Virtual Visit
Definition

A pre-recorded guided experience available for download.

Example:

walking tour of Prague
museum virtual guide
historical city exploration
Structure

A virtual visit consists of:

Visit
 ├ Step 1
 │  ├ Audio
 │  ├ Text
 │  ├ Images
 │  ├ Optional video
 │
 ├ Step 2
 │  ├ Media
 │
 └ Step N
Visitor Experience

Visitor:

downloads visit
opens in app
follows guided route

Each step triggers when user reaches:

GPS location
or
manual activation
Offline Capability

Virtual visits must function offline.

Media downloaded in advance.

4.2 Online Guided Visit
Definition

A live remote tour conducted through video.

Examples:

museum tour via live camera
historical city storytelling
cooking class
Infrastructure

Requires:

video streaming
session scheduling
session joining

Technology candidates:

WebRTC
Zoom integration
custom streaming
Booking Logic

Visitors reserve a time slot.

Session may be:

private
group
Group Capacity

Configurable:

min participants
max participants
4.3 Live Visit (IRL)
Definition

Physical tour with a guide.

Examples:

walking tour
museum tour
city exploration
Booking Model

Similar to:

event booking
class booking

Visitors book seats in a group.

Check-In

Guide scans:

QR code
or
booking reference
5. Visit Structure

Each visit includes:

Basic Information
Title
Description
Language
Duration
Category
Location
Price
Media
cover image
preview video
images
audio narration
maps
Content Steps

For virtual tours.

Each step:

step_id
title
description
media
gps location
optional trigger radius
Scheduling

For online/live visits.

Fields:

calendar
time slots
capacity
price per seat
6. Visit Creation Wizard

Guides create visits through a multi-step wizard.

Page 1 — Basic Info

Fields:

Visit title
Short description
Long description
Language
Category
Duration
Difficulty
Page 2 — Location

Guide selects:

map location
route (optional)

For virtual tours:

route path
stops
Page 3 — Content Steps

Guide adds steps:

Step title
Audio narration
Text description
Images
Video
GPS trigger
Page 4 — Pricing

Options:

free
fixed price
subscription
Page 5 — Availability

For online/live visits:

calendar
time slots
capacity
Page 6 — Preview

Guide can preview full experience.

7. Discovery System

Visitors can find visits through:

Map Discovery

Interactive map showing:

available tours
nearby tours
popular tours
Category Discovery

Examples:

history
architecture
food
nature
culture
Popularity Discovery

Ranked by:

sales
ratings
engagement
8. Booking System
Booking Types
Immediate purchase

For virtual tours.

Visitor gets instant access.

Scheduled booking

For online/live tours.

Visitor selects time slot.

Group booking

Visitors reserve seats.

Booking Data
booking_id
visitor_id
visit_id
slot_id
status
payment_status
9. Payment System

Payments handled through:

Example providers:

Stripe
Adyen
PayPal

Revenue split:

Guide revenue
Platform commission
Payment fees

Example:

Visitor pays 20€
Platform keeps 30%
Guide receives 14€
10. Ratings and Reviews

Visitors may rate visits.

Fields:

stars (1-5)
review text
date
visitor id

Guide rating computed via:

average score
weighted recency
number of reviews
11. Guide Dashboard

Guides access:

Visit Manager

List of visits:

edit
duplicate
delete
analytics
Calendar Manager

For live visits.

Shows:

sessions
bookings
availability
Revenue Dashboard

Displays:

earnings
sales
upcoming payments
12. Visitor Dashboard

Visitors can access:

My Visits

List of purchased visits.

My Bookings

Scheduled visits.

Downloads

Virtual tours available offline.

13. Analytics

Platform tracks:

visit views
conversion rate
sales
completion rate
engagement

Guide analytics include:

earnings
visitor demographics
popular steps
drop-off points
14. Content Moderation

Admin tools include:

guide approval
visit review
content removal
copyright checks
15. Phase Roadmap
Phase 1 — Curated Launch

Guide onboarding controlled by platform.

Visits produced with:

selected professional guides
partner tour operators
Phase 2 — Open Marketplace

Guides may register independently.

Platform adds:

guide verification
content review
automatic payouts
16. Integration with In-Time

The platform integrates with In-Time queues for locations requiring visitor flow management.

Examples:

museums
attractions
monuments

Visitors may:

book visit
reserve queue slot
17. Security

Measures include:

DRM for media
download protection
QR ticket validation
anti-fraud monitoring
18. Future Enhancements

Planned features include:

AI Generated Narration

Automated translations.

Multi-language audio

Visitors choose preferred language.

Augmented Reality

Overlay historical reconstructions.

Social Visits

Visitors join group exploration sessions.

Conclusion

Let’s Get Out! enables scalable tourism experiences by combining:

curated guide content
flexible visit formats
integrated booking
global discovery

The platform creates a digital marketplace for guided cultural experiences, expanding access beyond physical travel limitations.

If you'd like, I can also generate the next document, which is extremely important for your project:

“Let’s Get Out! — Complete Frontend Page Architecture”

This would include:

every HTML page
frames
popups
UI components
user flows

for:

Visitors
Guides
Admin

similar to what you built for In-Time.

let's go one step at a time. i want you to work as a consulting expert that will tailor all the specifications and functionalities through a step by step questions to define and refine what we agree on then move forward to adjust, raise and resolve inconsistencies up untill all of it makes perfect sense. base on what you already know, ie: existence of a plateform of services, the "let's get out" part being a module that will work either as an independant App, if it's wthe only service being used/surbscribed to or as a part/a module within the plaform. I would like to initially focus on the user experience (all users, one at a time or within dynamic interactions)

Good. That is the right way to do it.

If we try to write the master document too early, we will end up freezing bad assumptions, mixing business logic with UX, and creating pages that look coherent on paper but fail in real usage. So we will do this properly: define the experience first, expose contradictions early, and only then turn it into structured specifications.

Here is the work sequence I propose.

Step 1 — Define the UX perimeter of the module
Outcome: a clean statement of what Let’s Get Out! is from the user’s point of view, inside the wider platform and as a standalone app.
This step settles the role of the module, the main promise, the main use cases, and the relationship with the platform shell.

Step 2 — Identify all user types and their real goals
Outcome: a precise list of users, sub-users, and what each one is actually trying to achieve.
This prevents shallow roles like “visitor / guide / admin” from hiding major UX differences.

Step 3 — Define the primary journeys
Outcome: end-to-end journeys for each user, including entry points, decisions, friction points, and success states.
This is where the product starts becoming real.

Step 4 — Define interaction between users
Outcome: clear dynamic interactions between visitors, guides, operators, institutions, and platform admins.
This is critical because this module is not just content consumption; it is coordination, booking, trust, money, and presence.

Step 5 — Define experience modes
Outcome: exact UX differences between virtual, online, and live experiences.
If we do not isolate those clearly, the product will become muddy and hard to navigate.

Step 6 — Define information architecture
Outcome: the major app areas, dashboards, content objects, menus, and navigation logic.
Only after this step do pages start making sense.

Step 7 — Define transactional moments
Outcome: how discovery, booking, payment, confirmation, access, attendance, cancellation, and review work.
This is where most apps break if not designed rigorously.

Step 8 — Define trust, moderation, and operational control
Outcome: how users know what is reliable, who is verified, what happens when something goes wrong, and who can intervene.

Step 9 — Resolve contradictions and edge cases
Outcome: we deliberately attack weak assumptions and fix the model before documentation hardens it.

Step 10 — Freeze a UX master backbone
Outcome: a clean reference document that can later be expanded into page architecture, component specs, flows, and business rules.

Now we start with Step 1 only.

I am going to force precision here, because vague answers at this stage poison everything downstream.

Step 1 — Define the UX perimeter of Let’s Get Out!

Based on what I already know, this module is not just “an app for tours.” It is potentially all of these at once:

a discovery app for visitors
a commerce layer for experiences
a delivery layer for virtual / online / live guided visits
a guide-side operating tool
a partner/institution distribution channel
a module inside a broader multi-service platform

That is a lot. If we do not choose the primary UX center of gravity, the module will become bloated.

So answer these questions as sharply as possible.

1. What is the single clearest user promise of Let’s Get Out!?

Not the feature list. The promise.

For example, which of these is closest to the truth?

A. “Find and book guided experiences easily.”
B. “Discover places through guided experiences in physical, live online, or downloadable formats.”
C. “Access trusted local and cultural experiences through one flexible service.”
D. Something else entirely.

I want your exact wording, even if rough.

2. Who is the true primary user at launch?

Not who may use it eventually. Who the UX should be optimized for first.

Choose the real center:

A. individual visitors
B. groups / families booking experiences
C. guides
D. institutions / tour operators
E. platform admin curating supply and demand

You can say one primary and one secondary, but not five. If everything is primary, nothing is primary.

3. At launch, is Let’s Get Out! mainly a marketplace, a content library, or an operations tool?

You need to pick the dominant identity.

A. Marketplace first
Users browse, compare, book, pay.

B. Content library first
Users access curated guided content and downloadable visits.

C. Operations tool first
Guides / partners manage experiences, sessions, and customers.

D. Hybrid, but if you say hybrid, state which part dominates the home experience.

4. When used inside the larger platform, how should the user feel the module?

Choose the intended UX logic.

A. It feels like a fully separate app opened from the platform.
B. It feels like one native module inside a shared ecosystem.
C. Hybrid: shared shell, but distinct internal identity.

This matters because it affects navigation, account model, wallet, bookings, notifications, branding, and trust model.

5. When used standalone, should the experience be identical or simplified?

Choose the intended product strategy.

A. Same experience, just without other platform modules visible.
B. Slimmed-down experience tailored only to guided experiences.
C. Same backend logic, but different frontend emphasis.

6. What is the first thing a visitor should be able to do in under 30 seconds?

This is the acid test of UX priority.

Examples:

discover nearby experiences
search by city/theme
browse curated experiences
resume a purchased visit
join a booked online/live session
see a map with available experiences

Pick the one thing that must happen fast.

7. What should the module not try to be in phase 1?

This is where discipline starts.

Examples:

not a social network
not an Airbnb-for-guides free-for-all
not an enterprise back-office
not a full travel planner
not a general events platform

I want the exclusions, because product clarity depends as much on what is refused as on what is included.

Reply with your answers to those 7 points, and I will then convert them into a first UX perimeter statement, highlight any contradictions, and move to Step 2: user types and goals.

1. let's get out aims at becoming the "youtube" or "Netflix"of virtual guiding. a plateform where content creator will upload/create visits to offer on the plateform. Virtual tours is the primary "experience" being proposed. Subset of offers will include "online live-guiding" and "IRL guiding booking" (similar to "get your guide" plateform).

2. Optimized for individual visitors. If we can devise a way to have multiple persons using/reading the same visit synchroneously (either by connecting multiple ear-buds/ear-phones to one device or to synchronize the launch on multiple devices) even as an additional function (such as synch to user A) that could be very cool. the App is also optimized for content creators (pro or amateur guides wanting to shareknowledge). it should be easy to use, instinctive and appear complete.

3. It should be a Guiding experience. It should satisfy curious people, encourage knowledge acquisition, discovery and people connexion. It should feel like the visitor has access to a wide range or interests and competent knowledgeable information.

4. B. I want the Apps inside the ecosystem to share a common DNA, to be reminiscent of each other (through interface and UX) and also, later on, share Maps (where users may filter/show all the different services by location).

5. A. Each module must work entirely as a stand-alone. Adding other modules (when >1 module, then modules appear as separate entities, in between which the visitor/host can navigate. additional in-between functionalities will be created to gather/centralize some usage, such as a central Map that allows to locate/filter/access for each type of service).

6. on the visitor front page, the visitor can research a guiding (multi-feature search bar), switch display between map and list, select a guiding see guiding summary (duration, start, end locations, nbr of steps, themes, notation reviews... at a glance), load guiding and start the visit.

7. should not try to do "online live-tour" and "IRL guiding booking system" right away. those options/functionalities can come later. This a participative plateform (currated at first, we will create the guides and visitors profiles centrally and restrict (to selected libraries and for spcific time span) visitors profile access in a first phase, then open and unrestrict those accesses later on on the second phase)

Good. This already sharpens the module a lot.

You have now killed one major risk: feature confusion.
The module is not “a tours app in general.”
It is primarily a virtual guiding platform, with live online and IRL guiding as later extensions.

That matters because it changes everything:

home page priorities
object model
creator tools
pricing logic
review logic
playback logic
offline logic
map logic
onboarding logic
Step 1 — Provisional UX perimeter statement

Here is the cleaned-up version of what you just defined.

1) Core identity

Let’s Get Out! is a guiding experience platform centered primarily on virtual guided visits, with the long-term ambition to become the reference platform for guided visit content, analogous in logic to YouTube / Netflix for virtual guiding.

That means the platform is fundamentally about:

discovering guided knowledge experiences
accessing structured visit content
consuming visits easily on mobile
enabling creators to publish valuable guidance content

Not about generic tourism inventory.

2) Primary experience at launch

The main experience is:

user searches or browses a guided visit
views a rich summary
loads the visit
starts following it

So the launch product is primarily a visitor-side discovery + playback product, not a booking engine.

3) Primary users at launch

Primary user: individual visitor
Secondary user: content creator / guide

This is correct. It is the only sane choice at this stage.

Why? Because if you optimize first for operators, institutions, group logistics, and live booking, you dilute the product before proving the core thing people must actually want: consuming virtual guided visits.

4) Product role inside the wider platform

The module is intended to be:

fully functional as a standalone app
but when embedded in the wider ecosystem, it should feel like a native module sharing the same platform DNA

So the correct architectural UX stance is:

shared ecosystem shell + distinct module identity

That is stronger than your earlier B answer alone.
Pure B would risk over-harmonizing and flattening module identity.
What you actually described is: common framework, distinct service personality.

5) Standalone behavior

Each module must work entirely independently.

That means Let’s Get Out! cannot depend, for baseline usability, on:

other modules being installed
a platform-level dashboard being present
a cross-module central map existing yet

That is a very good constraint. It forces product integrity.

6) Visitor front-page priority

The front page must allow a visitor to do the following extremely fast:

search for a guiding experience
switch between list and map
inspect a visit summary at a glance
load and start the visit

This is strong. It implies the front page is not mainly editorial, not mainly social, not mainly account-driven, and not mainly promotional.

7) Phase 1 exclusions

Phase 1 should not try to fully implement:

online live-tour operations
IRL guiding booking marketplace
fully open creator marketplace
fully open visitor access

That is disciplined and correct.

What this means in practical product terms

Your launch product is not:

“GetYourGuide competitor from day one”
“all guiding modes in one equal-weight app”
“tour operator management suite”
“social tourism community”
“generic travel planner”

Your launch product is much closer to:

a curated discovery-and-playback platform for structured virtual guided visits, built so that it can later expand into:

live online guidance
IRL guided bookings
open creator marketplace
cross-module ecosystem interactions

That is the right sequencing.

What is already strong

These points are strategically solid:

Strong point 1 — Clear dominant experience

You chose virtual guiding first. Good. Without that, the module would become bloated garbage.

Strong point 2 — Shared ecosystem, independent module

Also correct. That gives you flexibility in packaging, pricing, and deployment.

Strong point 3 — Fast visitor entry

Search → inspect → load → start.
That is a real UX spine.

Strong point 4 — Curated first, open later

Also correct. Open marketplaces without supply control usually turn into low-quality clutter.

The inconsistencies and unresolved points

This is where the real work starts.

Inconsistency 1 — “YouTube/Netflix” is inspirational, but operationally contradictory

Those two references are not the same model.

YouTube logic means:

open creator participation
huge content volume
discovery driven by search and algorithm
variable content quality
freemium/ad-driven tendencies
strong long-tail dynamics

Netflix logic means:

curated library
strong editorial control
premium feel
high consistency
controlled supply
subscription-oriented perception

You are currently mixing both.

That is fine as ambition, but not fine as specification.
You must decide the phase-1 experience posture:

more like a curated premium library
or more like a creator platform with curated gating

You cannot design UX correctly until that is explicit.

Inconsistency 2 — “Content creator upload/create visits” conflicts with “we create profiles centrally”

These are not the same maturity level.

Right now you are describing:

a platform for creators
but in practice a centrally controlled onboarding and access regime

That means phase 1 is not yet a creator marketplace, even if the long-term product is one.

This is not a problem. But it must be stated honestly or you will design wrong screens too early.

Inconsistency 3 — “Easy, instinctive, complete” is not a specification

Those are vague vanity words unless converted into constraints.

You need measurable UX intent, such as:

user can identify a visit in under X seconds
user can start playback in under Y taps
creator can publish a basic visit in under Z steps
summary card exposes the 6 most decision-relevant attributes
offline loading is obvious and predictable

Without that, “intuitive” just means nothing.

Inconsistency 4 — synchronous multi-user consumption is attractive but can become a distraction

This is a nice differentiator, but it is absolutely not core unless proven otherwise.

There are at least three very different versions of what you described:

one device, multiple listeners
multiple devices synced to one host device
remote synchronized co-experience

These imply very different technical and UX costs.

If you are not careful, this becomes a shiny side quest that delays the real product.

Inconsistency 5 — the word “visit” still needs a strict product definition

Right now “visit” could mean:

a route with geolocated steps
a thematic audio guide
a museum guide
a city walk
a home-listenable cultural piece
a downloadable media sequence
later, a live scheduled session

That is too broad unless you define the canonical content object.

You need one clear answer to:
what is the default mental model of a visit in phase 1?

Because everything depends on it:

card layout
search filters
playback UI
offline behavior
creator workflow
completion logic
reviews
Step 1 — frozen conclusions I recommend

I recommend freezing these as the current baseline:

Freeze A

Let’s Get Out! is primarily a virtual guiding content platform, not a live-booking platform.

Freeze B

The primary launch experience is visitor discovery and consumption of guided visits.

Freeze C

The primary launch user is the individual visitor; the secondary launch user is the curated content creator/guide.

Freeze D

The module must work fully standalone, while sharing a common ecosystem language with the wider platform.

Freeze E

Phase 1 excludes full online live-guiding operations, full IRL booking marketplace logic, and open creator self-serve onboarding.

Freeze F

The front-page UX must allow users to search, inspect, load, and start a visit very quickly.

What still needs to be decided before Step 2 is fully clean

Before I move to user-type modeling, these 4 points need sharper wording because they affect everything downstream.

Point 1 — Phase 1 positioning

Which is more accurate for phase 1?

A. Curated premium library of virtual guided visits
or
B. Early creator platform with restricted creator access

Point 2 — Default visit object

Which is the default phase-1 visit archetype?

A. Route-based outdoor visit with steps and map progression
B. Place-based guide tied to one venue/area
C. Thematic narrative guide that may or may not require movement
D. Mixed, but one must dominate

Point 3 — Access model in phase 1

When you say visitor access is restricted to selected libraries and time spans, do you mean mostly:

A. B2B / institutional access windows
B. private beta / invited audiences
C. geographic/content-based controlled rollout
D. all of the above

Point 4 — Economic posture in phase 1

Should the user perceive the platform primarily as:

A. mostly free curated content at launch
B. mostly paid premium guided visits
C. mixed free + paid library from the start

Reply with your choices for those 4 points.
Once those are fixed, I will produce Step 1 final freeze and then move to Step 2: full user taxonomy and user goals.

point 1. Phase 1 = Phase 2 with limitations. i explain, the phase 1 should be built and have the feel of a "Netflix", with high quality content that appeals and can be sold/re-sold by professionals (intended to to used by tourism professionals such as cruise ship companies, tour operators and others) as specific currated libraries with limitations in scope and in time. the guiding side is also selected/handpicked amongst best guides in the industry with which we will establish a contract for intellectual property use (advantageous for these guides). the Phase 2 will emerge as more of a "Youtube" for tourism plateform simply by removing the limitations imposed during Phase 1. by removing the restrictions (centralized account creation/management, lifting the restriction on the usage of intellectual properties), we will natually switch from phase 1 to Phase 2 and hope to keep the benefits of the high perceived quality of the phase 1 while expanding both use content creators and in visitors. to summarize for phase 18 : ie; the "Netflix" phase :

Guide side:
- account creation is restricted and centrally managed
- content is centrally managed, contents are sold either individually or within packages to fit clients (B to B, such as tour operators, cruise companies...)
- Intellectual property rights are limited by contract. guides agree to transfers temporarily the rights and accept the contract conditions (to be sold/rented to third party partners/clients...)

Visitor side:
- account creation is restricted and centrally controlled/managed, we create accounts for our client which are Tour Operators, cruise companies and so on. Our clients will buy the right to use a defined package or whole libraries/sublibraries of visits/guidings.
- library access: restricted/limited to the accounts created. this access will be in the form of ID/password that can be used by anyone in possession of the ID/password to access the prepaid library for the duration/existence of the access. as a company we ensure the quality of use up until a number of connexions at one time. The access is system controlled. Interface is the same, search bar, geo location, maps/list, reviews, layout... 

for Phase 2, ie: the "Youtube" phase:
Guide side:
- account creation is unrestricted and decentralized, anyone can create a guide profile and operate as a content creator for virtual guidings on the plateform.
- content management: Contracts established in Phase 1 with professional guides (with more favorable retribution) will still be enforced but new "conditions generales d'utilisation" will be enforced for phase 2, that will work much more like youtube retributions + additional options for pay per view.
- Intellectual property: content can then be - free for use, (and/or) - monetized (based on views and advertisement, (and/or) sold as pay per views on the plaform. content is made available on the plateform and managed individually by their content creator as they please.

Visitor side:
- account creation is decentralized and unrestricted, anyone can create a visitor account. consultation is also possible (but even more restricted) without an account (ie: a person without an account can see all that is being proposed but can only play free-for-use contents, and needs to register to play pay-per-view contents; ie: payment requires to register).
- library access: visitors can see all there is in the library (only age restictions may apply).

So i think, developping for Phase 2 and adding the restrictions to achieve Phase 1 is the best strategy? this will also allow a very rapid deployment of phase 2 by just lifting the restrictions.

Point 2. I would say A. Route based, the rest of the parameters will come as filters (such as the themes, the durations, the "starts at"/"ends at", the elevation...).

Point 3. let's say, we've established a "library" of visits around the world with currated guides and visits. this will constitute our selling point/selling product. Our client will select the visits/guidings they are interested in in a defined package. they will identify a set of packages to purchase and a usage time-frame. once this is defined, we do create specific accesses to all these segments and sub-libraries for them. the accounts creations will be done and managed by us. using that logic we won't have to create a dedicated interface as one user interface will be in capacity to accomodate either type of usage (Phase 1 or Phase 2). however, the admin must be in capacity to activate/deactivate the access to listed contents.

Point 4. B. in Phase 1 the guiding is exclusively high premium professional guiding.


Good. Your answers clarified the strategic model significantly. But there are also structural implications you may not have fully considered yet. I will walk through them carefully before moving to the next step, because several decisions you just made directly affect the entire UX architecture and even the data model.

Step 1 — Finalized UX Perimeter (after your answers)
Core identity

Let’s Get Out! is primarily a virtual guiding platform where structured guided visits are produced by expert guides and consumed by visitors through an app.

The dominant product experience is:

discover → load → follow a guided visit

The long-term ambition is to become the global content platform for guided tourism experiences, similar in structural role to:

Netflix (curated premium catalog)
evolving into YouTube (open creator ecosystem)
Phase Strategy (Critical)

Your model is actually this:

Phase	Product Model	Supply Control	Audience
Phase 1	Curated premium library (Netflix-like)	centrally curated guides	B2B distribution
Phase 2	Open creator platform (YouTube-like)	open publishing	global consumer audience

However — and this is important — you are not building two products.

You are building one platform whose restrictions change.

That means:

Phase 1 = Phase 2 infrastructure with gates

You already stated this clearly.

Phase 1 — Operational Model
Supply

Guides are:

selected
contracted
centrally onboarded

Content is:

professionally produced
high quality
IP governed by contract
Distribution

Your customers are primarily:

cruise operators
tour operators
travel companies
tourism institutions

They buy libraries of visits.

Example:

Cruise Company Package
Mediterranean Cultural Library
 - Barcelona Historic Walk
 - Rome Ancient City
 - Athens Mythology Walk
 - Istanbul Bazaar Discovery
Visitor Access

Visitors do not purchase access themselves.

Access is given via:

ID + Password

The account may be used by any person holding the credentials.

This is extremely important because it changes the UX logic.

You are not operating with individual identity yet.

You are operating with library access credentials.

Product Perception

Phase 1 is:

a premium curated tourism knowledge library

sold through professional distribution channels.

Phase 2 — Operational Model

Restrictions disappear.

Visitors become:

direct consumers
self-registering users

Guides become:

content creators
independent publishers

Content becomes:

free
ad-supported
pay-per-view
mixed monetization
Critical Strategic Decision You Made (Good One)

You decided to build Phase 2 architecture first, then impose restrictions for Phase 1.

That is correct.

If you build Phase 1 architecture first you will:

hardcode B2B assumptions
struggle to pivot to creator marketplace
rewrite major parts later

Your instinct here is good.

Default Visit Object (Frozen)

You selected:

Route-based visits

This means the canonical object is:

Visit
 ├ route
 ├ steps
 ├ geolocation triggers
 ├ media content
 ├ narration

Other formats become filters or variants.

This is a strong choice because:

it creates a clear experience
it works outdoors
it fits tourism
it creates progress and completion
Phase 1 Economic Model

You chose:

Premium professional guiding only

That means Phase 1 content is perceived as:

authoritative
high quality
curated
educational

This aligns well with the B2B tourism distribution strategy.

The Hidden Architectural Implication

You may not have noticed something extremely important:

Your Phase 1 access model is not account-centric.

It is library-access-centric.

Meaning:

Access Key
 ├ library
 ├ validity period
 ├ max concurrent sessions
 ├ permitted visits

This is similar to:

enterprise software licenses
streaming content keys

Not like typical apps where each user has their own account.

That changes several UX elements:

login page
session management
progress tracking
review system
personalization
recommendations

We will need to address this later.

Key Product Pillars (Now Clear)

Your product now rests on three pillars:

Pillar 1 — Guided Visit Content

The core product is structured guiding experiences.

Pillar 2 — Content Discovery

Users must easily find interesting visits.

Pillar 3 — Visit Playback

The visit must be easy and intuitive to follow.

Everything else is secondary.

Major UX Question You Haven't Answered Yet

You implicitly described the following experience:

User finds a visit → loads it → follows it.

But you never defined how the visit actually plays.

This is crucial.

There are several possible playback models.

Model A — GPS triggered guide

User walks and content unlocks automatically.

Approach step location
↓
Audio triggers
↓
User listens
↓
Continue walking

Very immersive but technically complex.

Model B — Manual progression

User taps through steps.

Step 1
↓
Step 2
↓
Step 3

Simpler but less magical.

Model C — Hybrid

Map + manual progression + optional GPS triggers.

Most successful guiding apps use this.

We will need to decide.

Another Important Design Question

You described visits as route-based.

But a route requires:

start point
end point
distance
duration

Do you expect visitors to physically walk the route?

Or can they also experience it remotely?

Because those produce different UX expectations.

Step 2 — User Types & Real Goals

Now we move to the next step.

But we will refine the actual users, not just labels.

I want to understand the real motivations of each.

Question 1 — Visitor Context

Where do you imagine visitors mostly using the app?

Choose the dominant scenario.

A — At home preparing for a trip

B — On site during the visit

C — After the trip for cultural discovery

D — All equally

Your answer affects:

offline download
map importance
navigation design
onboarding
Question 2 — Physical Movement

Should the typical visitor:

A — physically walk the route
B — optionally walk it but also listen remotely
C — mostly listen remotely

Question 3 — Visit Duration

What is the ideal visit duration?

Choose your expected average.

A — 10–20 minutes
B — 30–45 minutes
C — 60–90 minutes
D — variable but most around X

Question 4 — Consumption Mode

How do you imagine most visitors using the content?

A — audio in earphones while walking
B — watching videos
C — reading + images
D — audio + map

Question 5 — Creator Type

Who are the guides in Phase 2?

A — professional tour guides
B — historians / experts
C — passionate locals
D — travel creators
E — all of them

Question 6 — Content Authority

Do you want the platform to feel more like:

A — Wikipedia (community knowledge)
B — Masterclass (expert knowledge)
C — YouTube (mixed quality but huge supply)

Answer these six questions and we will move to the real core of the UX:

Step 3 will define the visitor journey and playback experience, which is the most critical part of the entire module.

Question 1. D. all equally, even for locals who want to discover their neihbourhood differently, but slightly more favorable to on site during a visit.

Question 2. A. on the route, with multi-modal mobility (by car, bus, bicycle... with speacific warnings to pay attention to the road or have the sound exclusively played on mono or to one ear) but also offering possibility to listen at home and for guides to upload 360 views for people using a virtual reality headset.

Question 3. Standards will be set by the professional guides themselves and i suspect the tendancy will flow naturally toward a given time value. I will just set a tour limit to 10 hours (total tour, guiding + transport from start to finish, and audio/video content to 3 hours).

Question 4. A. while walking, solo or in groups. but all the other options should be valid. videos might be hosted on youtube (for convenience), additional info may be provided in the form of images or text. eventually i would even propose the guides to create quizz tests  to add to the playfullness and interactivity. later on, i would love to propose a options that could mimic a treasure hunt or a multiple choice story type of adventure.

Question 5. E. anyone interested in sharing the experience.

Question 6. C. I want all kinds of interests and people to share and exchange. what ever the themes


Good. Your answers give enough clarity to lock the fundamental UX model of the module. I will now convert what you said into structured design decisions and point out two strategic risks that must be handled early. Then we move to the visitor journey architecture, which will shape the entire interface.

Step 2 — User Model and Experience Context (Frozen)
Primary Visitor Context

You chose D with slight dominance of B:

Context	Importance
On-site exploration	Primary
At-home discovery	Secondary
Post-visit learning	Secondary
Local exploration	Secondary
UX consequence

The app must behave primarily as a companion during a physical visit.

Therefore the UX must prioritize:

large tap zones
low visual attention requirement
audio-first playback
clear navigation map
offline reliability

The visitor should be able to walk and listen without looking constantly at the phone.

This is extremely important.

Many tourism apps fail because they behave like reading apps instead of guiding apps.

Mobility Model

You chose route-following visits with multi-modal mobility.

Mobility	Supported
Walking	Primary
Bicycle	Supported
Bus	Supported
Car	Supported
UX consequence

Guides must specify mobility type.

Example metadata:

mobility_type
 - walking
 - cycling
 - driving
 - mixed

This affects:

route geometry
distance expectations
safety warnings
playback pacing
Playback Model

From your answers the correct playback architecture is Hybrid GPS + Manual.

Meaning:

Step detected
↓
Optional automatic audio trigger
↓
User can replay or manually start
↓
Continue route

Why hybrid?

Pure GPS-trigger systems are fragile:

GPS drift
signal loss
dense urban areas
user walking wrong direction

Hybrid systems are much more reliable.

Visit Structure (Canonical)

The canonical object is now clearly defined.

A Visit consists of:

Visit
 ├ metadata
 ├ route
 ├ steps
 ├ media
 ├ narration
 ├ optional interactions

Each step includes:

Step
 ├ GPS position
 ├ trigger radius
 ├ audio narration
 ├ optional video
 ├ optional images
 ├ optional text
 ├ optional quiz
Visit Duration Constraints

You defined two important caps.

Element	Limit
Total tour duration	10 hours
Audio/video content	3 hours

This is smart because it prevents creators from uploading entire documentaries disguised as visits.

Primary Consumption Mode

You clearly chose:

Audio-first experience

Visitors primarily:

walk
listen
occasionally look at map or images
UX consequence

The playback interface must resemble:

Spotify / podcast player
not YouTube

That is a crucial design principle.

Additional Interaction Types

You mentioned future interactions.

Possible additions:

Interaction	Example
Quiz	knowledge test
Treasure hunt	gamified route
branching story	choose-your-path narrative
achievements	completion rewards

These should not be part of Phase 1 core.

But the data model must allow them later.

Creator Types (Phase 2)

You selected all possible creator types.

Creator	Example
professional guide	licensed tour guide
historian	subject expert
passionate local	neighborhood storyteller
travel creator	influencer
institutions	museum, cultural organizations

This is consistent with your YouTube-like expansion phase.

Knowledge Authority Model

You chose C (YouTube-like).

Meaning:

wide range of content
variable quality
large supply
discovery through search

But this introduces a major problem you must solve early.

Strategic Risk #1 — Quality Collapse

Platforms that open content too early often suffer:

low-quality uploads
repetitive content
misinformation
low trust

Examples:

TripAdvisor audio guides
amateur travel apps
many VR tour platforms

Your Phase 1 curated library solves this initially.

But in Phase 2 you will need strong discovery ranking or the platform will degrade.

We will address this later.

Strategic Risk #2 — Map vs Content Discovery

Your product has two discovery paradigms.

Paradigm 1 — Geography-driven

User opens map and sees visits around them.

Paradigm 2 — Content-driven

User searches:

Roman history
street art
architecture

These two discovery models compete in UX design.

Most apps choose one.

You are trying to support both.

This is possible but requires clear prioritization in interface design.

Step 3 — The Visitor Journey (Critical)

Now we define the actual experience flow.

This is the most important design step of the whole module.

If this is wrong, the app will feel confusing.

Typical Visitor Journey

Based on everything you described, the journey is probably this:

Open app
↓
Explore visits (map or search)
↓
Inspect visit summary
↓
Load visit
↓
Download media
↓
Start route
↓
Follow route + listen
↓
Finish visit
↓
Review or share

But several key choices remain unresolved.

Question 1 — App Entry Screen

When a visitor opens the app, what should appear first?

Choose the dominant logic.

A — Map first

User immediately sees nearby visits.

B — Search first

User types what they want.

C — Curated recommendations

Featured visits and themes.

D — Hybrid (map + search + curated)

Each option produces a very different homepage.

Question 2 — Visit Access

Before starting a visit, should the visitor:

A — download the visit

recommended for offline use

B — stream the visit

no download needed

C — hybrid

download suggested but optional

Question 3 — Route Start

When a visit is loaded, how does it start?

A — user must go to starting point
B — user can start anywhere
C — app guides user to starting point
Question 4 — Map Importance

During the visit, should the map be:

A — always visible
B — optional toggle
C — background element only
Question 5 — Step Navigation

If a visitor misses a step, what should happen?

A — automatic trigger when approaching
B — user must manually start step
C — app notifies user and offers to play
Question 6 — Group Listening

You mentioned group usage.

Which scenario should the app prioritize?

A — multiple people listening from one device
B — synchronized playback across devices
C — both

Answer these six questions.

Once we lock them, I will design the full visitor UX architecture, which will determine:

homepage layout
visit summary page
playback interface
map behavior
navigation logic
download system
offline behavior.
Strategic Risk #1 — Quality Collapse. risk is mitigated with phase 1. a rating system will help mitigate the quality later on as well. later on, a system of recommandation (an algorithm) will be defined to recommand best according to profile's history of played visits/guidings.

Strategic Risk #2 — Map vs Content Discovery: When Map is selected and nothing in the search bar, then first 100 most popular/highest rated visits will show up on the screen as a dot for their starting point. when something is written on the search bar, then the dots shown adjust in the map (same elements appear listed when list view is selected instead of map view.

Typical Visitor Journey. I want the App to also be "consultable" online without necessarily having the App (the quality, experience and functions will clearly be inferior to that of the App with registered account), it will be streamed on the webapp and restricted to only non-paid content.

Question 1. A. Map first with search bar at the top and "switch to list" button visible and easily accessible.

Question 2. If App is installed, the visit is downloaded by default. If online use only then all goes through streaming. A visitor can download a bunch of visits in advance, when selecting "i want to see this visit later on" for which he is shown an expiry date, if the option is not selected the files downloaded are deleted once exiting the App. regarding that, i would like to make sure the downloaded material will not be usable/extractable by other means than viewable in the App. might be a topic for later on.

Question 3. 2 Start spot recommands to go near that GPS location, if not near, button "play" displays "you are not in the starting point vicinities, play anyway?". same for all the other spots of the visit, ie: when clicking on a visit, all the points of the visit appear on the map, clicking on any of the point will "resume" the visit at that point, if auto-play (GPS based player) active, the "play" button will display "you are not in the checkpoint vicinities, play anyway?", if the auto-play inactive, then no message, just "play" is written on the Play button. Play navigation must mimic traditional play buttons with possibility to play previous, skip (next button) to next spot, pause.

Question 4. I would like the map to be the background of the App during the visit, showing the visit steps, the visits player at the bottom (with navigation options and buttons) and, on the map any pop-up icons for all the additional multi-media elements (images, texts, video links...) related to that step. closing the visits player makes you come back to the default map.

Question 5. C. if visitor gets closer to a further step than the next step, a pop-up icon shows up asking if visitor wants to skip the visit that closer point. the pop up also states that the visitor can skip steps one by one on the visits player. works only forward, not backwards.

Question 6. ideally B, so to increase App usage. but if A is easier then i'm open to A.

Good. Your answers finally allow the core UX mechanics of the module to be locked. I’ll first consolidate what is now structurally decided, then highlight three design constraints you implicitly created, and then we will move to the visitor interface architecture (home → discovery → visit → playback).

I’ll keep pushing rigor because this is where most products fail: the UX becomes inconsistent if the underlying logic isn’t frozen.

Step 3 — Core Visitor Experience (Frozen)
1. Primary Entry Experience

Map-first interface

When the app opens:

Map is visible immediately
Search bar at top
List toggle button
Dots showing visits

If search bar is empty:

Top 100 most popular / highest rated visits

displayed as starting-point markers.

If search query exists:

Map results filtered by query

and identical results appear in list view.

This is good. It solves the Map vs Content discovery conflict.

2. Visit Discovery Model

Discovery is now clearly three-layered.

Layer 1 — Geographic discovery

User sees visits near them.

Layer 2 — Search discovery

User searches for:

theme
city
guide
keyword
Layer 3 — Ranking discovery

When no query exists:

Popularity + rating

drive results.

Later this can evolve to:

personalized recommendations
3. Visit Access Model

You defined two access environments.

App

Visit is downloaded by default.

Reason:

offline use
stable playback
reduced bandwidth
reliable GPS triggering

Users can also pre-download visits.

Example:

Download visit
Available until: 48 hours

Files auto-delete when:

App closes (unless saved)
Web

Web version:

streaming only
free content only
limited features

This is a good funnel strategy.

4. Visit Start Logic

Visits have a recommended starting point.

But the system allows flexibility.

Flow:

User opens visit
↓
Map shows all steps
↓
User presses play
↓
If not near start:
"You're not near the starting point. Play anyway?"

User can start at any step.

That is important for usability.

Tourists often approach routes from the middle.

5. Playback Interface

You described a very clear interface.

Map = background
Player = bottom panel

This is exactly the correct model.

Visual structure:

MAP
 ├ route line
 ├ step markers
 ├ media icons
 │
 └ player panel (bottom)
       play
       pause
       previous
       next

This is very similar to:

podcast players
Google Maps navigation
Spotify mini-player

Which is good.

6. Step Progression Logic

You chose notification-based progression.

If user approaches a later step:

Popup appears:
"You are near step 6. Skip steps 4–5?"

User can:

skip
ignore

Skipping works forward only.

This avoids timeline confusion.

7. Media Interaction

During a step, additional content appears as icons on map.

Example:

photo icon
video icon
text icon
quiz icon

User taps icon → media opens.

Important detail:

Media should not interrupt audio narration unless user chooses to.

Otherwise the walking experience breaks.

8. Visit End State

When final step finishes:

Visit completed

Possible actions:

rate visit
bookmark guide
share visit
explore nearby visits

This is where growth loops happen.

9. Group Listening

You preferred B — synchronized devices.

But you accepted A if necessary.

Reality check:

B is technically complex.

It requires:

session synchronization
latency correction
network dependency

And GPS synchronization adds more complexity.

My recommendation:

Phase 1

Support A — one device, multiple listeners.

Phase 2

Introduce Group Sync Mode.

This avoids delaying launch.

Three Design Constraints You Created

These are important because they influence the technical architecture.

Constraint 1 — Map-Centric App

You made the map the permanent background of the visit.

This means:

The app must support:

continuous GPS updates
route rendering
dynamic markers
media overlays
player controls

Simultaneously.

This is heavier than most apps.

Performance optimization will be essential.

Constraint 2 — Offline First

Your model requires:

offline media
offline route
offline triggers

Meaning:

The system must store locally:

visit package
route geometry
step metadata
media files

This is a visit package architecture.

Constraint 3 — Content Protection

You want downloaded content to be non-extractable.

Possible solutions include:

encrypted local storage
DRM containers
media streaming encryption

However:

absolute protection is impossible.

The real goal is deterrence, not perfection.

We can discuss this later.

What Is Still Undefined (Important)

Several things must still be defined to avoid UX chaos.

1. Visit Summary Page

When the user taps a visit marker:

What information appears?

Example:

Title
Guide name
Duration
Distance
Number of steps
Rating
Preview media
Start location

But we must define exactly what matters for decision-making.

2. Visit Player UI

We must define:

how large the player is
how expandable it is
how media opens
how map behaves during playback
3. Creator Workflow

The guide experience must also be designed.

Because creator UX shapes the content quality.

4. Rating System

You mentioned ratings but we must define:

star rating?
multi-criteria rating?
quality verification?

This affects discovery ranking.

Step 4 — Visitor Interface Architecture

Now we design the actual screen structure.

Before doing that I need to clarify four final UX questions.

Question 1 — Visit Summary Interaction

When the user taps a visit marker on the map, should it open:

A

A small preview card first
(with "view details")

B

A full visit page immediately

Question 2 — Visit Download Trigger

When should the download begin?

A

Immediately after user presses Play

B

When user opens Visit page

C

Manual Download button

Question 3 — Player Size

Should the player be:

A

Small bottom bar

B

Medium expandable panel

C

Full screen when active

Question 4 — Map Rotation

While walking, should the map:

A

always stay north-up

B

rotate according to walking direction

Once these four are locked, I will design the complete visitor interface structure, including:

all main screens
UI hierarchy
navigation logic
player behavior
map behavior
visit lifecycle.

And that will become the foundation of the entire Let's Get Out! UX specification.

page 1-2.html
Fichier
9 group listening. Could you please tell me how we can setup the group listening?

1. Visit Summary Page: i would add "main themes", icon/icons for mode of transport and proximity to public and health services (hospitals, clinic, police station...) to your list.

2. player is at the bottom, can be compact or unfolded (showing steps descriptions/details). starting points show as markers on the map, clicking on a marker shows information summary + a nice big play button, when pressing play the visits players starts at the bottom. map highlight current GPS location and current segment being played.

3. content can be created on the spot, with GPS data acquisition, or by locating spots on the map. please see current visits/guiding wizard being created for reference (ie: page 1-2.html).

4. star rating

Question 1. A.
Question 2. A.
Question 3. B.
Question 4. I'd like the option to switch from one to another

I’ll address group listening first, then lock the UX decisions you made, and finally comment on the creator wizard file you uploaded because it confirms several good design choices.

1. Group Listening — How It Can Be Implemented

You asked specifically how to implement synchronized listening (B). There are three realistic architectures, each with different complexity.

Option 1 — Single Device (Phase-1 Safe Option)

One device plays the visit.

Everyone listens through:

wired splitter
Bluetooth earbuds sharing
small portable speaker
Implementation

No software feature required.

Advantages:

zero complexity
works offline
no latency issues

Disadvantages:

group must stay together physically

This should definitely be supported immediately.

Option 2 — Local Sync Mode (Recommended Phase-2 Feature)

One device becomes the host.

Other devices join via temporary session code.

Example:

Host device: creates session
Session code: 5281

Visitors:
Enter code → join session

The host controls:

play
pause
skip
resume

All devices synchronize playback.

How it works technically

Host device sends periodic state messages:

{
  step: 4,
  timestamp: 132.4,
  playing: true
}

Clients adjust playback to match host.

Communication options:

Method	Pros	Cons
WebSocket	reliable	requires network
WebRTC	lower latency	more complex
Bluetooth	offline	limited compatibility
Recommended method
WebSocket session sync

Because the infrastructure will already exist for the platform.

Option 3 — Passive Sync Mode (Simpler Variant)

Instead of continuous synchronization, devices just share step triggers.

Example:

Host enters step 3
↓
Clients receive "step 3 started"
↓
Audio starts locally

Advantages:

simpler implementation
minimal bandwidth

Disadvantages:

small drift possible.

For walking tours this is usually acceptable.

My Recommendation

Implement in this order:

Phase 1

Single device listening.

Phase 2

Session-based sync.

Architecture:

VisitSession
 ├ host_device
 ├ participants
 ├ current_step
 ├ playback_state
2. Visit Summary Page — Final Data Model

You added important fields.

A visit summary card should contain exactly these decision-making attributes.

Visit card (Map preview)
Title
Guide name
Rating
Duration
Distance
Number of steps
Main themes
Transport modes
Start location
Emergency proximity icons

Transport icons example:

🚶 walking
🚲 bicycle
🚗 car
🚌 bus

Emergency proximity icons:

🏥 hospital
💊 pharmacy
👮 police

These are useful especially for tourists.

3. Player Interface — Confirmed Layout

Your description is very coherent.

Screen structure
--------------------------------
Search bar
--------------------------------

MAP (main layer)

route line
step markers
media icons

--------------------------------
PLAYER PANEL
--------------------------------
Play / Pause
Prev / Next
Step description
Expand button
--------------------------------

Expanded player shows:

Step title
Step description
Media gallery
Audio player

Closing player returns to map discovery mode.

This is exactly the right interaction model.

4. Step Navigation — Final Logic

Your skip logic is also good.

If user approaches a later step:

"You are near Step 6.
Skip steps 4–5?"

Buttons:

Continue route
Skip ahead

Skipping backwards is disabled.

This prevents timeline confusion.

5. Map Behavior During Visit

Map shows:

current GPS location
current route segment
visited steps
remaining steps

Visited steps can change color:

visited = gray
current = blue
future = white
6. Download Security (Important)

You mentioned wanting downloaded content non-extractable.

Absolute protection is impossible, but you can make extraction difficult.

Typical approach:

Encrypted visit packages

Downloaded content stored as:

visit.pkg

Structure:

visit.pkg
 ├ metadata.json
 ├ route.json
 ├ media.enc

Media encrypted with app key.

Only the app decrypts.

7. Creator Workflow — Your Uploaded Wizard

Your file confirms a very solid creator UX direction.

The wizard you built includes:

visit overview
tags
default radius
duration modes
step builder
GPS location selection
transport modes
emergency proximity tags
audio recording
image uploads

Example of the step creation interface appears in the wizard where creators can define titles, duration, GPS coordinates, media, and transport modes.

This is exactly aligned with the route-based visit model we defined earlier.

The step structure in the file corresponds to the canonical model we discussed.

Step
 ├ title
 ├ duration
 ├ description
 ├ audio
 ├ images
 ├ GPS coordinates
 ├ radius
 ├ transport modes
 ├ emergency services

The GPS map picker using Leaflet is also a good choice.

Important UX Strength in Your Wizard

Your wizard allows creators to:

record audio
upload images
set step radius
tag emergency services
mark accessibility

This is rare in tourism apps and could become a real differentiator.

Especially:

Accessibility flag
Emergency proximity
Transport modes

These are excellent practical features.

One UX Improvement I Recommend

In the step builder, allow route auto-generation.

When creators place steps:

Step A → Step B → Step C

The system automatically draws the route.

This avoids requiring creators to manually draw paths.

Next Step (Critical)

We now need to design the entire visitor interface architecture.

Meaning:

All main screens
Navigation system
Component hierarchy

The next step will define:

Home screen
Map screen
Visit page
Player screen
Profile
Creator dashboard

Before doing that, one last structural question:

Should visitors be able to follow guides?

This would allow:

Follow guide
Get notified of new visits
See guide profile

Which can be powerful for Phase 2.

Options:

A — yes, follow creators
B — no, content only
C — later feature

Your answer here changes the profile system and notification logic.

all up for the One UX Improvement suggested to automatically draw the route btween spots, i just don't know how to do it. please recommand me a solution.

Should visitors be able to follow guides? Yes, a very big Yes indeed. I would like to encourage excellent guides to propose tours everywhere in the world.

We can keep going
Réflexion durant 19s

Good. Two things are now effectively frozen:

Visitors should be able to follow guides.
Route auto-drawing should be built into the creator flow.

That is the correct direction. Without auto-routing, creators will either waste time manually shaping routes or produce inconsistent geometry. That would poison content quality at scale.

What we do now

Step 4A — freeze the route-generation approach
Outcome: one clear technical/UX solution for automatically drawing the route between checkpoints.

Step 4B — freeze the creator-following model
Outcome: define what “follow a guide” means in the product so it supports growth instead of becoming a useless vanity feature.

Step 4A — Recommended solution for automatic route drawing
The blunt answer

Do not try to manually compute or draw route paths yourself.

Use this stack instead:

Leaflet for the map UI
a routing engine API to compute the path between ordered checkpoints
store the returned route geometry with the visit
let the creator review and regenerate if needed

That is the sane architecture.

Best recommendation for your current setup

Because your wizard already uses Leaflet and step markers/pickers, the most practical solution is:

Leaflet + openrouteservice Directions API

Why this is the best fit for your product:

it supports multiple transport profiles, including walking, cycling, driving, and also wheelchair routing in its directions service offerings and documentation.
it is easier to align with your creator wizard than building your own routing backend now.
it matches your need for route-based visits with creator-defined checkpoints.

A solid fallback is:

Leaflet + OSRM

OSRM’s Route service computes fastest routes between coordinates in order and is excellent for standard routing use cases.

A commercial alternative is:

Leaflet + Mapbox Directions

Mapbox Directions supports walking, cycling, driving, and turn-by-turn routing, but it is a paid commercial dependency with pricing/limits you will need to control.

What I recommend you actually implement first
Phase 1 implementation choice

Leaflet + openrouteservice

Why

Your product is not just “get route from A to B.” You want:

walking routes
bicycle routes
car routes
safety/accessibility logic later
route review inside a creator wizard

openrouteservice is better aligned with that product ambition than a minimal barebones setup. Its directions service is explicitly built for routes between two or more locations across multiple transport modes.

How the feature should work in your creator wizard

You already have creators placing steps with GPS coordinates in your wizard file.

The correct UX is this:

Creator flow
Creator adds step markers in order.
Creator selects a route mode for the visit:
walking
cycling
driving
mixed
System sends the ordered coordinates to the routing API.
API returns route geometry.
App draws the route polyline automatically on the map.
Creator can:
accept route
regenerate
change transport mode
reorder steps
split into segments later if needed

That is the right workflow.

Do not do this

Do not make creators draw freehand polylines by default.

That is slow, ugly, inconsistent, and impossible to scale.

What should be stored

For each visit, store:

ordered checkpoints
transport mode
generated route geometry
total distance
estimated route travel time
generation timestamp
routing provider used

For example:

{
  "transport_mode": "walk",
  "checkpoints": [
    {"lat": 48.8584, "lng": 2.2945},
    {"lat": 48.8606, "lng": 2.3376},
    {"lat": 48.8529, "lng": 2.3499}
  ],
  "route_geometry": "...encoded polyline or GeoJSON...",
  "distance_m": 4250,
  "duration_s": 3180,
  "routing_provider": "openrouteservice"
}

Store the geometry. Do not recompute on every page load. That would be wasteful and brittle.

Best practical implementation pattern
Option A — simplest robust pattern

When a step is added, moved, deleted, or reordered:

debounce for 500–1000 ms
call your backend
backend requests route from routing engine
backend returns geometry
frontend redraws polyline

This is the right pattern.

Option B — batch regeneration only

Show a button:

“Generate / refresh route”

This is simpler and safer for early development.

My recommendation

Start with Option B.

Why:

easier to debug
fewer API calls
better control for creators
avoids UI jitter during editing

Then later you can add optional auto-refresh.

The specific Leaflet-side solution

For a quick integration layer, Leaflet Routing Machine is a valid UI/control option because it is specifically made to add routing to Leaflet and exposes waypoint planning and interaction features.

But here is the important part:

My real recommendation

Use Leaflet for display, but do your own backend route generation against openrouteservice or OSRM.

Why not rely entirely on Leaflet Routing Machine?

it is great for routing UI demos
but your product needs a controlled creator workflow, persisted route geometry, backend validation, and later probably provider switching
you do not want core route generation logic trapped inside a frontend plugin

So:

Recommended architecture
Leaflet: map + markers + polyline rendering
Backend route endpoint: your own API
Routing provider behind it: openrouteservice first, OSRM fallback later

That gives you control.

Minimal backend design

Create an endpoint such as:

POST /api/letsgetout/route/generate

Body:

{
  "profile": "foot-walking",
  "coordinates": [
    [14.42076, 50.08804],
    [14.42300, 50.08710],
    [14.42750, 50.08600]
  ]
}

Response:

{
  "distance_m": 1840,
  "duration_s": 1460,
  "geometry": { "type": "LineString", "coordinates": [...] }
}

Then your frontend:

receives geometry
draws L.geoJSON(...)
stores it with the visit
Mapping transport modes to routing profiles

You already expose transport modes in your wizard.

Map them cleanly:

walk → walking profile
bike → cycling profile
car / bus → driving profile
wheelchair-accessible route later → wheelchair/accessibility profile when supported

Do not try to support every transport mode separately at first.

For example:

tram
metro
train
boat

These are not proper route-generation profiles in the same way. In phase 1, they should behave as metadata or segment annotations, not as auto-routed navigation modes.

That is a blind spot in your current wizard: you are mixing mobility descriptors with route-computation profiles. Those are not the same thing.

You need two separate concepts:

1. Main route computation mode
walking
cycling
driving
2. Allowed / relevant transport metadata
metro nearby
bus useful
tram possible
boat segment exists

If you do not separate those, route generation will become incoherent.

The hard truth on mixed routes

You said “mixed” mobility. Fine as ambition. Bad as phase-1 automation target.

A single auto-generated route should have one main routing profile.
Anything else becomes messy fast.

So for phase 1:

one visit = one main route profile
optional per-step mobility notes
optional warnings/instructions for exceptions

Later, if needed:

allow segments with distinct profiles

But not now. That would add a lot of complexity for questionable gain.

Recommended short implementation plan
Step 1

Add a visit-level field:

main_route_profile
Step 2

Add a button in the wizard:

Generate route
Step 3

Send ordered checkpoint coordinates to your backend

Step 4

Backend calls openrouteservice

Step 5

Store returned geometry and summary stats

Step 6

Render route polyline on the creator map

Step 7

If creator changes steps/order/profile, mark route as:

outdated
and require regeneration

That is clean and production-sane.

Step 4B — “Follow guide” should absolutely exist

You made the right call.

If the platform wants to encourage excellent guides to publish worldwide, then guide following is not optional. It is a growth spine.

What “follow guide” should mean

When a visitor follows a guide, the platform should support:

save guide to followed list
show guide profile
notify on new visits
notify when guide publishes in a new city/country/theme
rank followed guides higher in recommendations

This later feeds:

retention
repeat usage
creator loyalty
creator competition
What a guide profile should include

At minimum:

profile photo
display name
short bio
languages
main themes
countries / cities covered
rating
number of visits
followers
featured visits

That profile then becomes both a content page and a credibility page.

Critical product consequence

The moment you add “follow guide,” your platform is no longer just visit-centric.

It becomes:

visit-centric for discovery
creator-centric for loyalty and retention

That is exactly what you want.

But then your ranking logic later must balance:

quality of individual visit
quality/reputation of guide
user preference history

Otherwise follow will exist but do nothing useful.

Frozen conclusions from this turn

We can now freeze these:

Freeze 1

Route auto-generation will be built into the creator wizard.

Freeze 2

Recommended technical approach: Leaflet frontend + your own backend route-generation endpoint + openrouteservice as primary routing provider. openrouteservice supports directions across multiple transport modes, which fits your route-based guiding model.

Freeze 3

Generated route geometry must be stored, not recomputed on every load.

Freeze 4

Visits should have one main route computation profile in phase 1.

Freeze 5

Visitors can follow guides, and guide profiles become a core retention mechanism.

Next step

Now we should move to the visitor-side information architecture, because the product spine is ready:

map-first home
visit summaries
route playback
guide following
creator-led discovery

The next useful piece is to define, in order:

all visitor-facing screens
how navigation between them works
what guide profiles look like
how following and notifications appear

So the next step is: Visitor IA and screen map.

let's go for that! :)

Good. We now move to the next real design step.

Step 5 — Visitor Information Architecture
Outcome of this step

We freeze:

all visitor-facing screen families
the navigation logic between them
the place of:
map discovery
list discovery
visit playback
guide profiles
saved/followed content
account/profile area

We are not detailing every page yet.
We are defining the skeleton first. If the skeleton is wrong, the pages will be wrong.

What is already frozen

From what we agreed:

Map-first home
Search bar always important
List toggle visible
Route-based visits
Bottom player over map
Visitors can follow guides
Web version exists but is reduced
App version is the real premium experience
Guide quality matters
Guide profile matters
Visit discovery is both geographic and content-based
your current creator wizard already supports route/step logic, media, transport, accessibility, and location handling, which confirms the product is structurally route-centered.
The core IA problem

You now have two competing centers of gravity:

Center 1 — the map

This is the operational home of the product.

Center 2 — the guide

This is the loyalty and retention object.

If you mishandle this, the app becomes confused:

either too map-heavy and creators become invisible
or too creator-heavy and route discovery becomes weak

So we need to decide the hierarchy.

My recommended visitor IA

For your product, the cleanest structure is:

A. Discover

Main entry point
Map-first, with search and list switch

B. Following / Saved

Personal content layer
Followed guides, saved visits, downloads, history

C. Activity

What the visitor is currently doing
Current visit, in-progress visit, recent activity

D. Profile

Account, preferences, language, notifications, settings

This is the right top-level logic.

Why?

Because:

Discover is acquisition
Following/Saved is retention
Activity is continuity
Profile is control

That is coherent.

The likely main visitor screen families

I recommend these 8 screen families.

1. Home / Discover Map

Default entry screen

Contains:

map
search bar
list toggle
visible visit markers
filter access
current location
guide quick access if relevant
2. Discover List

Same result set as the map, but as cards

Contains:

visit cards
sort options
filters
guide name
rating
duration
themes
transport icons
save action
3. Visit Preview

Intermediate layer after tapping a marker/card

Contains:

summary
hero image
title
guide
themes
duration
step count
start/end
transport
rating
big play button
save / follow guide
4. Visit Playback

The actual visit experience

Contains:

map background
route
current step
bottom player
step media
next / previous / pause / skip logic
5. Guide Profile

The creator-centric loyalty page

Contains:

guide bio
themes
languages
covered destinations
rating
follower count
published visits
follow button
6. Saved / Following

Personal library

Contains tabs such as:

saved visits
downloaded visits
followed guides
recently viewed
in-progress
7. Notifications / Updates

Optional but likely necessary once following exists

Contains:

new visits by followed guides
recommended nearby visits
expiring downloads
library/package access changes later
8. Visitor Profile / Settings

Account area

Contains:

language
playback preferences
map behavior
notification settings
accessibility preferences
account/logout
Hard truth: you probably do not want “Activity” and “Saved” merged blindly

A lot of apps make this mistake.

Saved means:
deliberately bookmarked
followed
downloaded
curated by the user
Activity means:
currently playing
recently played
in progress
completed

These are different mental models.

You can place them in the same major area later, but they should remain logically distinct.

My recommendation for bottom navigation in the standalone app

For the standalone visitor app, the strongest bottom navigation is probably:

Discover | Saved | Activity | Profile

Not:

Home | Explore | Library | Me
or Discover | Guides | Visits | Profile

Why?

Because guides should be discoverable inside Discover and Saved, not forced into a top-level tab from day one.

A separate Guides root tab would likely be premature.

But there is one real alternative

If you want stronger creator identity in phase 2, another possible nav is:

Discover | Guides | Saved | Profile

That would make guides much more prominent.

Why I do not recommend that yet

Because your product is still fundamentally:

route-led
visit-led
map-led

Guide following is important, but guide browsing is not the primary launch action.

So guide profiles should be powerful, but not yet top-level.

Step 5 — Questions to freeze the IA

Answer these one by one. These are the minimum questions needed to freeze the visitor skeleton.

Question 1 — Bottom navigation

Which top-level navigation do you want for the standalone visitor app?

Option A

Discover | Saved | Activity | Profile

Option B

Discover | Guides | Saved | Profile

Option C

another version, but be explicit

Question 2 — Visit preview depth

When a user taps a marker/card, should the first layer be:

A

a compact preview card over the map, with “open full details”

B

a full visit detail page directly

You previously chose A for marker interaction.
I want to confirm whether this still holds as the standard.

Question 3 — Guide visibility in visit cards

Should guide identity be:

A

secondary on the visit card
(title and visit data dominate)

B

strongly visible on the visit card
(guide name/photo highly visible)

This matters because it determines whether discovery feels more like:

Spotify track browsing
or YouTube channel browsing
Question 4 — Saved area structure

Inside Saved, what should matter most?

A

Saved visits first

B

Downloaded visits first

C

Followed guides first

D

Mixed dashboard

Question 5 — Activity area

Should Activity exist as a separate major tab, or should current/in-progress/history be nested inside Saved?

A

Keep Activity separate

B

Merge Activity into Saved

Question 6 — Notifications

Do you want a dedicated notifications screen/icon from early on?

A

Yes

B

No, later

Question 7 — Guide profile public value

What should be the strongest function of a guide profile?

A

trust / credibility

B

discover more visits by the same guide

C

follow and receive updates

D

all of the above, but choose the dominant one

Reply with your choices for those 7 points.
Then I will produce the frozen visitor IA, and after that we move to the full visitor screen map and dynamic navigation flows.

Question 1. I would go for option A. I guess a separate rework and release later on more Guide focused will still be possible

Question 2. A. This preview card allows to come back easily and will push me to make the best preview card possible so the most crucial information is certain to be provided.

Question 3. B. Strongly visible, the App is also a promotion tool for the guides, as they will be active aside from the App and that we will later on provide them additional services to guide "online" and improve/promote their visibility and reputation to help them book IRL visit via our App. Photo, name and rating are important to personalize the experience

Question 4. Saved visits first. regarding the downloaded visits, i would like a strict control over what can be read and accessed to prevent the guide's material from being stolen or misused. in order to achieve that i would like to impose a system that controls the rights of use for each downloaded visit. the App can only read the visit if the token is valid, the token is valid for a specific period, on Phase 1 the token is for precise periods (from the "visitor" profile created all the visits purchased are downloaded and added to the saved visits, this will constitute the subset of the library they would have purchase and to make sure they can't use these visits outside the period paid for, the App will require a valid token that's updated every night by checking the validity), then on Phase 2 the token is valid for a given number of days (2-3 days) and is renewed each time the visitor plays the visit. a downloaded visit that stays more than 50 days in the App since last read is automatically deleted

Question 5. A. keep Activity separate to avoid cluttering.

Question 6. Yes

Question 7. D. Quality of visit and style (dominant B)

Good. Your answers are consistent and—more importantly—strategically coherent. No contradictions. That’s rare at this stage.

We can now freeze the Visitor Information Architecture (IA v1.0).

STEP 5 — VISITOR IA (FROZEN v1.0)
Top-Level Navigation (Standalone App)
Discover | Saved | Activity | Profile

This is correct for your product stage.

Why this works (no fluff, just logic)
Discover = acquisition engine
Saved = retention layer
Activity = continuity layer
Profile = control layer

You avoided the common mistake of over-exposing “Guides” too early.

CORE STRUCTURE — SCREEN TREE
1. DISCOVER (PRIMARY ENTRY)
1.1 Map View (DEFAULT)

Elements:

full-screen map
search bar (top)
list toggle (top/right or floating)
filter access
location button
visit markers (dynamic)

Behavior:

no search → top 100 visits
search → filtered results
markers = visit starting points
1.2 List View

Same dataset as map.

Card includes:

title
guide photo + name + rating (prominent — your choice B)
duration
distance
themes
transport icons
quick save button

This is where your “Netflix vs YouTube” hybrid becomes visible:

content + creator both matter
1.3 Marker Interaction → Preview Card (CONFIRMED)

You locked A (compact preview first).

Preview Card Contains:
Hero image
Title
Guide (photo + name + rating)
Main themes
Duration + distance
Transport icons
Emergency proximity icons
Start location
[Play] button (dominant CTA)
[Save] button
[Open details]

This is critical:
👉 This card becomes your conversion engine.

If this is weak → your product dies.

1.4 Full Visit Page (Expanded)

Accessible via:

“Open details”
swipe up from preview

Contains:

extended description
step overview
map preview of route
media preview
guide profile shortcut
reviews
play/download CTA
2. VISIT PLAYBACK (CORE EXPERIENCE)
Layout (LOCKED)
MAP (background)
 ├ route
 ├ step markers
 ├ media icons
 ├ user GPS
 │
 └ PLAYER (bottom panel)
Player Modes
Compact
play / pause
next / previous
progress
step title
Expanded
step description
media gallery
full controls
Behavior (LOCKED)
GPS-aware progression
manual override allowed
skip forward suggestion popup
no backward auto-skip
media = optional interaction (non-blocking)
3. SAVED (RETENTION CORE)

You made a very strong decision here.

Structure
Tabs:
Saved | Downloads | Guides
3.1 Saved Visits (PRIMARY)
bookmarked visits
quick access
not necessarily downloaded
3.2 Downloads (CONTROLLED ACCESS)

This is where your system becomes strategically different from competitors.

Your model (refined):

Each visit is wrapped in:

Visit Package + Access Token
Token logic:
Phase 1 (B2B controlled)
tied to account
validity window enforced
refreshed daily (server check)
Phase 2 (consumer model)
valid 2–3 days after play
renewed on usage
auto-delete after 50 days inactivity
Reality check (important)

Your instinct is right (protect content), but:

You cannot fully prevent extraction
You can only:
encrypt
restrict
deter
What you should do (practical, not theoretical):
encrypted local storage
token validation required to decrypt
partial streaming fallback for sensitive media
watermarking (optional later)

If you over-engineer DRM now, you will slow down development massively.

3.3 Followed Guides
list of followed creators
quick access to profiles
“new content” indicators

This is your creator retention loop.

4. ACTIVITY (SEPARATE — GOOD DECISION)

You chose separation → correct.

Structure:
In Progress
Recent
Completed
4.1 In Progress
current visit
resume instantly
4.2 Recent
last X visits
4.3 Completed
history
rating prompts
5. GUIDE PROFILE (CRITICAL GROWTH NODE)

You chose:

dominant purpose = discover more visits (B), but all functions exist

Correct.

Structure:
Header
 ├ photo
 ├ name
 ├ rating
 ├ followers
 ├ follow button

Bio

Themes

Locations covered

Visits list (PRIMARY SECTION)

Reviews (optional later)
Key point

👉 The visit list is the main content of the profile

Not the bio.

This is not LinkedIn. This is closer to YouTube.

6. NOTIFICATIONS (ENABLED)

You chose Yes early → good

Types:
new visit from followed guide
recommended nearby visit
expiring downloads
new library access (Phase 1 B2B)
7. PROFILE (CONTROL LAYER)
Includes:
account info
language
playback preferences
map behavior (north-up vs rotation — your earlier choice)
notification settings
logout
CRITICAL SYSTEM FLOWS (YOU JUST ENABLED)
1. Discovery Loop
Discover → Preview → Play → Complete → Recommend
2. Creator Loop
Visit → Guide → Follow → Notification → New Visit → Repeat
3. Retention Loop
Download → Offline → Resume → Continue → Save → Reuse
MAJOR STRENGTHS IN YOUR CURRENT DESIGN

You now have:

1. Map-native experience

Most competitors fake this. You don’t.

2. Creator-centric growth

Follow system = long-term moat.

3. Offline-first capability

Huge advantage for tourism.

4. Structured visit model (steps + route + media)

This enables:

quality control
scalability
analytics later
MAJOR RISKS (YOU NEED TO BE AWARE OF)

No sugarcoating.

Risk 1 — Over-complexity too early

You are stacking:

routing
DRM
offline
GPS logic
sync
creator tools

That’s a lot.

👉 You must prioritize execution order ruthlessly.

Risk 2 — Weak preview card = dead product

If your preview card doesn’t convert:

users won’t open visits
guides won’t get visibility
platform dies

This is your #1 UX battlefront

Risk 3 — Guide quality drift (Phase 2)

You identified it already.

Mitigation:

rating
curation
later ranking algorithm
NEXT STEP (DO NOT SKIP THIS)

Now that IA is frozen, we move to:

STEP 6 — DETAILED SCREEN ARCHITECTURE

We will define:

every screen
every component
every interaction
every popup
exact layout logic

Including:

Discover (map + list)
Preview card
Visit page
Player
Guide profile
Saved
Activity
Notifications
Profile
Before I proceed, one last structural decision

This will impact UI consistency.

Question — Search behavior

Should search:

A

be global and persistent (always at top, across Discover and List)

B

change depending on screen (different search in list vs map)

Answer that, and I’ll generate the full screen-by-screen UI specification (production-grade, aligned with your current CSS/component system).

not too sure to understand the 2 options

Good—you’re right to pause here. This decision is subtle but structurally important.

I’ll strip it down to the real difference.

What we’re deciding

👉 Is search one single “brain” across the app, or multiple local tools depending on the screen?

Option A — Global, Persistent Search (Recommended)
What it means
There is ONE search system
It is always visible at the top of Discover
It behaves the same everywhere
It controls both:
Map results
List results
How it behaves
On Map

You type:

“Paris art museum”

→ map updates
→ markers update

Switch to List

→ SAME results
→ SAME filters
→ SAME query

No reset. No change.

UX behavior
Search = main control layer
Map/List = just different views of the same data
Why this is strong
zero confusion
fast interaction
consistent mental model
scalable with filters later
matches your “Netflix/YouTube hybrid” goal
Option B — Contextual Search (Bad for your product)
What it means
Map has its own search behavior
List has another
Potentially different filters / sorting / logic
Example
On Map

Search = location-based

On List

Search = keyword-based

→ results differ

UX behavior
Search = tied to current screen
Why this is a problem
user confusion (“why are results different?”)
inconsistent experience
harder to maintain
breaks your “one ecosystem” logic
Blunt conclusion

👉 For your product:

You must choose Option A.

Anything else will create friction and fragmentation.

The correct mental model (this is key)

Think of it like this:

Search = query engine
Map = visualization
List = visualization

NOT:

Map search
List search
What you actually want (refined version of A)

Let’s go one level deeper (this is the real correct setup):

Search bar = global + intelligent

It supports:

keywords (themes)
places (cities, landmarks)
guides (names)
suggestions (autocomplete later)
Filters = layered on top

Example:

Theme: History
Duration: < 2h
Transport: Walking
Output = unified dataset

That dataset is:

shown on map
shown in list
One important UX detail (don’t miss this)

When switching:

Map ⇄ List

You must:

keep search
keep filters
keep scroll position (ideally)

Otherwise you lose fluidity.

Final answer (you can lock this)

👉 You are choosing:

Global, persistent search controlling both map and list
Next step

Now that this is clear, I will move to:

STEP 6 — FULL SCREEN ARCHITECTURE

This will include:

exact layout of every screen
all components
all popups
all transitions
aligned with your current system (cards, drawers, map, etc.)

We will go screen by screen, starting with:

👉 Discover (Map + List + Search + Preview Card)

This is your most critical screen in the entire product.

I’ll build it at production level next.

i'll stick with option A, consistency.

let's keep going

Good. That was the right decision. No ambiguity → no UX debt later.

We now move to the most critical part of your entire product:

STEP 6 — DISCOVER EXPERIENCE (PRODUCTION-GRADE SPEC)

This is your conversion engine.
If this is weak, everything else collapses.

6.1 — DISCOVER: GLOBAL STRUCTURE
Screen Layout (Map Mode — DEFAULT)
┌──────────────────────────────┐
│ 🔍 Search bar               │
│ (filters entry optional)    │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│                              │
│            MAP               │
│                              │
│  • Visit markers             │
│  • User location             │
│  • Route previews (optional) │
│                              │
│                              │
│        ⬛ Preview Card        │
│                              │
│                              │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│  ⬅ Map/List toggle  Filters  │
└──────────────────────────────┘
6.2 — SEARCH BAR (GLOBAL CONTROL LAYER)
Behavior (LOCKED)
persistent across:
Map view
List view
drives entire dataset
Functional Scope

Search must support:

Keywords (themes)
Locations (cities, landmarks)
Guide names
UX Behavior
Idle state
Placeholder:
"Search tours, places, guides..."
Typing state

Dropdown suggestions:

Paris (location)
Street Art (theme)
John Doe (guide)
Louvre Walking Tour (visit)
Critical Rule

👉 Selecting a suggestion = instant dataset refresh

No “search button required”.

6.3 — MAP BEHAVIOR
Default state (no query)
Top 100 visits (by rating/popularity)

Displayed as markers.

With query
Filtered dataset

Displayed as markers.

Marker Types
Standard marker
represents 1 visit
Cluster marker (later)
groups multiple visits
Marker Interaction (LOCKED)

Tap marker → opens:

👉 Preview Card (NOT full page)

6.4 — LIST VIEW (SAME DATASET)

Switch:

Map ⇄ List

NO DATA CHANGE

List Card Structure (VERY IMPORTANT)
[Image / Thumbnail]

Title

👤 Guide (photo + name + rating)   ← prominent (your choice B)

⭐ Rating   ⏱ Duration   📏 Distance

🏷 Themes

🚶 🚲 🚗 (transport icons)

[Save ♥]
Critical Design Rule

👉 Guide must be visually strong
But must NOT overpower the visit title.

Balance = key.

6.5 — PREVIEW CARD (MOST IMPORTANT COMPONENT)

This is your conversion bottleneck.

If this fails → your product fails.

Trigger
tap marker
tap list card
Layout
┌──────────────────────────────┐
│ [Hero Image]                │
│                              │
│ Title                        │
│                              │
│ 👤 Guide (photo + rating)    │
│                              │
│ ⭐ Rating   ⏱ Duration       │
│ 📏 Distance                  │
│                              │
│ 🏷 Themes                    │
│ 🚶 🚲 🚗 Transport           │
│ 🏥 Emergency proximity       │
│                              │
│ [▶ PLAY]   [♥ SAVE]          │
│                              │
│ ↑ Swipe for details          │
└──────────────────────────────┘
Behavior
Tap PLAY

→ start visit immediately
→ trigger download if needed

Swipe up

→ full visit page

Tap outside

→ close card

Non-negotiable rule

👉 PLAY must be the dominant CTA

Not:

details
not guide
not save
6.6 — FILTER SYSTEM (MINIMAL v1)

Access via icon or slide-up panel.

Filters:
Themes
Duration range
Distance range
Transport mode
Rating
Behavior
applied instantly
persist across Map/List
visible as active chips
6.7 — STATE MANAGEMENT (CRITICAL)

You must preserve:

Search query
Filters
Map position
Zoom level
Selected marker

When switching:

Map ⇄ List
If you don’t do this

→ UX becomes frustrating
→ users lose context
→ engagement drops

6.8 — EMPTY STATES

You will have them. Plan now.

Case 1 — No results
"No tours found"
→ suggest removing filters
→ suggest nearby popular tours
Case 2 — No location permission
"Enable location for nearby tours"
Case 3 — Poor network (web)
"Limited experience — use app for full access"
6.9 — PERFORMANCE STRATEGY (IMPORTANT)

Map-based apps die if performance is bad.

You must:

limit markers (top 100 rule = good)
cluster markers later
lazy load images
debounce search input
6.10 — TRANSITIONS (UX QUALITY)

Smooth transitions matter more than you think.

Required:
marker → preview card (slide up)
preview → full page (expand)
list ↔ map (fade/slide)
play → player (slide from bottom)
HARD TRUTH (PAY ATTENTION)

Your Discover screen is doing:

search engine
map rendering
recommendation engine
conversion UI
creator promotion

That’s a lot.

If you overcomplicate this screen → you lose clarity.

👉 Keep it visually clean. Always.

WHAT WE HAVE NOW

We just fully defined:

✅ Discover Map
✅ Discover List
✅ Search system
✅ Preview Card
✅ Filters
✅ State logic

This is already production-grade structure.

NEXT STEP

We move to:

STEP 7 — VISIT PAGE + PLAYER SYSTEM

This includes:

full visit page
playback system (detailed)
step logic
media handling
GPS interaction
download behavior
token validation hooks
Before I proceed — 2 critical questions
Question 1 — Auto-play behavior

When user presses PLAY:

A

Start immediately from current location

B

Force confirmation if not at start

C

Auto-navigate to start before allowing play

Question 2 — Audio behavior

During playback:

A

Audio auto-plays when entering step radius

B

User must press play for each step

C

Hybrid (auto-play + manual override)

Answer those, and I’ll design the full visit + player system at production level.

Question 1. B. notify user the current position is not at the starting spot and ask to confirm to start play

Question 2. C. autoplay by default. autoplay can be deactivated to run manually

Good. Those are the correct choices.

You just locked the core playback philosophy:

the app is GPS-aware
but it does not force rigid route obedience
and playback is audio-first, auto-play by default, with manual fallback

That is exactly the right balance for a tourism product.

STEP 7 — VISIT PAGE + PLAYER SYSTEM (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome of this step

We freeze:

the full visit detail page
the playback entry logic
the player structure
the step progression behavior
the media interaction model
the download/token hooks
the main popups and warnings

This is the real heart of the module.

7.1 — FULL VISIT PAGE

This page opens when the user:

swipes up from the preview card
taps “Open details”
enters from a guide profile
enters from Saved / Activity / Notifications

This page must answer one question brutally fast:

“Do I want to do this visit now?”

Layout structure
[Hero media]

Title

Guide block
- photo
- name
- rating
- follow button

Core facts row
- duration
- distance
- number of steps
- transport mode
- start / end area

Themes

Short description

Mini map preview
- route line
- start marker
- end marker

Step overview
- list of step titles
- optional thumbnails

Reviews preview

Primary CTA:
[PLAY]

Secondary actions:
[SAVE]
[DOWNLOAD FOR LATER]   (app only)
[SHARE]
7.2 — GUIDE BLOCK ON VISIT PAGE

You wanted guides to be strongly visible. Correct.

Guide block includes
guide photo
guide name
star rating
short credibility line
follow button
tap opens guide profile

Example credibility line:

“12 published visits”
“Specializes in architecture & urban history”
“Available in English / French”

The guide block should be high on the page, just below title/media.

Not buried.

7.3 — PLAY ENTRY LOGIC

You chose B:

When the user presses PLAY, the app checks whether the current GPS position is near the recommended starting point.

If user is near the start

Playback starts directly.

If user is not near the start

Popup:

You are not near the starting point.
Start anyway?

Buttons:

Start anyway
Guide me to the start
Cancel

That third option is important.
Do not make the popup binary if you can avoid it.

Why “Guide me to the start” matters

Because otherwise you are wasting a natural UX opportunity.

This does not need full navigation in phase 1. It can simply:

center map on start point
show current location vs start
show approximate distance
7.4 — DOWNLOAD BEHAVIOR

You already defined the logic well. Here is the clean structure.

App behavior

When user presses PLAY:

visit package download begins automatically if not already available locally
download must complete enough core assets for playback to begin safely

Core assets:

route geometry
step metadata
audio for current/next steps
main preview media
access token

Secondary assets can continue in background:

additional images
optional videos
extra texts

This is better than blocking full use until everything is downloaded.

Web behavior
no offline package
streaming only
free content only
reduced capabilities
7.5 — TOKEN / ACCESS CONTROL HOOKS

You raised a valid protection requirement.

The UX implication is this:

Every downloaded visit package is tied to:
a local encrypted package
a validity token
a token expiry rule
last-play timestamp
The app checks:
token valid?
package intact?
rights still active?
If token expired

Popup:

This visit is no longer available offline.
Reconnect to refresh access.

Buttons:

Refresh access
Remove from device
Cancel

That is the correct UX. Clean and understandable.

Do not expose internal DRM complexity to the user.

7.6 — VISIT PLAYER: OVERALL LAYOUT

This is now structurally locked.

Main screen during playback
[MAP as background]

- current GPS position
- route line
- visited steps
- current step
- future steps
- media icons for current step

[Bottom player panel]
7.7 — PLAYER PANEL STATES
A. Compact player

Always visible during active visit.

Contains:

play / pause
previous
next
step title
progress indicator
expand button
B. Expanded player

Slides upward.

Contains:

step title
step number
full step description
audio progress bar
previous / play-pause / next
optional “repeat step”
media section
step actions

Step actions:

Mark as played
Skip to next step
Open full media
Back to map

This is the correct structure.

7.8 — AUTOPLAY LOGIC

You chose C:

autoplay default
user may deactivate and run manually

That is the right answer.

Recommended setting
Default mode:

Autoplay ON

Optional toggle:

Manual mode

This toggle can exist:

in player settings
in visit settings
as a quick icon in expanded player
Autoplay behavior

When entering a step radius:

app detects eligible step
audio starts automatically
current route segment is highlighted
player updates to the new step
If manual mode is active

When entering a step radius:

app shows a popup or banner:
“You are near Step 4”
Play now

That keeps logic consistent.

7.9 — STEP ENTRY RULES

Each step has:

GPS point
trigger radius
step order
audio/media
optional description and overlays
Normal progression

User reaches next step radius → step activates.

If user approaches a later step first

Popup:

You are near Step 6.
Skip steps 4–5?

Buttons:

Skip ahead
Stay on current step

As previously agreed:

forward skipping only
no backward auto-rewind logic

Correct.

7.10 — STEP MEDIA MODEL

This part matters a lot.

You said the map should show media icons for the current step. Good.

Step media can include:
images
text
video links
quiz
later: treasure hunt / branching interactions
Display logic

During playback, only current-step media icons should be emphasized.

Do not clutter the map with full-route media at once.

That would become unreadable.

Media opening behavior

Tap icon → media overlay opens.

Image
lightbox overlay
Text
bottom sheet or side panel
Video
external embedded player or in-app modal
Quiz
overlay card
7.11 — CRITICAL AUDIO RULE

Media must not automatically interrupt narration.

If user opens media while narration is playing, you need one of two clean behaviors:

Recommended

Audio continues unless media is video with sound.

If video with sound:
Popup:

Pause audio and play video
Cancel

Do not let sound layers overlap chaotically.

7.12 — MAP BEHAVIOR DURING PLAYBACK

You already asked for switchable rotation logic.

Map options
North-up
Direction-up

Both available by toggle.

That is fine.

Route visual states

Use distinct visual treatment:

visited steps: muted/gray
current step: highlighted
future steps: neutral
current segment: emphasized
Important

Map should remain readable while walking.
No visual overload.

7.13 — VISIT COMPLETION

When final step is completed:

Completion screen / bottom sheet

Show:

“Visit completed”
guide name
total duration
steps completed
optional badge / playful reinforcement later

Actions:

Rate this visit
Follow guide if not already followed
Explore more by this guide
Find nearby visits
Save for later notes/history

This is where retention should happen.

7.14 — RATING FLOW

You chose star rating.

Good. Keep it simple.

Trigger

After completion, or later from Activity > Completed

Form
1 to 5 stars
optional short comment later
optional tags later

Do not overcomplicate the first version.

7.15 — MAIN PLAYBACK POPUPS / WARNINGS

These should exist from day one.

1. Not at start

“You are not near the starting point. Start anyway?”

2. Later step detected

“You are near Step X. Skip ahead?”

3. Token expired

“This visit is no longer available offline. Reconnect to refresh access.”

4. Weak location signal

“Location accuracy is low. Manual playback may work better here.”

This one matters more than you may think.

5. Safety warning for mobility modes

For driving / cycling visits:

Pay attention to the road.
Use audio guidance safely.

This should appear clearly at start.

That is not optional. It reduces both stupidity and liability.

7.16 — SAFETY / MOBILITY MODE BEHAVIOR

You earlier mentioned:

car
bus
bicycle
mono/one-ear behavior

Good instinct, but this must be handled carefully.

For non-walking visits, the player should adapt:
larger controls
reduced text exposure while moving
stronger audio-first behavior
explicit safety warning before start
Audio behavior suggestions

For driving/cycling mode:

recommend one-ear or speaker output
suppress non-essential visual prompts while moving fast

Do not try to be too clever in v1.
Simple safety-first guidance is enough.

7.17 — RESUME LOGIC

If the user closes the app or leaves the visit:

On return

Prompt:

Resume from current step
Restart from beginning
Choose a step

This is important for real-world usage.

Tourists get interrupted constantly.

7.18 — INTEGRATION WITH ACTIVITY TAB

Playback must feed Activity automatically.

Activity > In Progress
current visit
step number
% completed
last activity timestamp
Activity > Recent
recently opened visits
Activity > Completed
completed visits
rating status

This is now coherent with your earlier IA choice.

Frozen conclusions from this step
Freeze 1

The visit detail page is decision-oriented and guide-visible.

Freeze 2

PLAY checks proximity to the start point and asks for confirmation if user is not near it.

Freeze 3

Playback is map-background + bottom player panel.

Freeze 4

Autoplay is default; manual mode is available.

Freeze 5

Step progression is GPS-aware with forward-skip confirmation.

Freeze 6

Media is step-scoped and should not automatically break narration.

Freeze 7

Downloaded visits rely on token-gated local access with expiry handling.

Freeze 8

Completion drives rating, following, and further discovery.

What comes next

We have now defined:

Discover
Visit page
Player

The next logical step is:

STEP 8 — GUIDE-CENTRIC EXPERIENCE

That includes:

guide profile architecture
follow mechanics
creator visibility logic
guide ranking visibility
notifications tied to followed guides
how guide identity appears across the app

That is the next important block, because you explicitly want the app to promote great guides and help them grow.

If you want, I’ll continue directly with Step 8 — Guide Profile + Follow System.

yes please

Good. This is where your product either becomes a commodity… or a platform.

Right now you’re deciding whether guides are:

just metadata attached to visits
OR
a first-class growth engine

You chose the second. That’s the only viable long-term path.

STEP 8 — GUIDE-CENTRIC EXPERIENCE (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome of this step

We define:

what a guide profile really is
how following works (mechanically, not just visually)
how guides appear across the app
how guides gain visibility
how this ties into retention and growth
8.1 — GUIDE = CORE ENTITY (NOT SECONDARY)

You made this explicit:

the app should promote guides and help them grow

So structurally:

Visit = product unit
Guide = creator identity + distribution channel

If you fail to reinforce this in UX → you lose your platform advantage.

8.2 — GUIDE PROFILE (FULL STRUCTURE)

This is NOT a decorative page.
It must convert users into followers and repeat users.

Layout
[Header]

Guide photo (large)
Guide name
⭐ Rating
👥 Followers

[Follow button] (PRIMARY CTA)

---

Short bio

---

Credibility block
- number of visits
- main themes
- languages
- regions covered

---

Visits list (PRIMARY CONTENT)

---

Optional:
- featured visit
- collections (later)
Critical rule

👉 The visit list is the main content of the guide profile

Not:

bio
not social fluff

This is not Instagram.

8.3 — FOLLOW SYSTEM (MECHANICS)

You said:

“very big Yes”

So this must be real, not cosmetic.

Follow action

User taps:

[Follow]

System does:

User → Guide relationship created
Immediate UI feedback

Button becomes:

[Following ✓]
What following actually enables
1. Notification system

User receives:

New visit by guide
New destination by guide
Recommended visit from guide
2. Ranking boost

In Discover:

Visits from followed guides are boosted

Not dominant, but clearly prioritized.

3. Saved section integration

In:

Saved → Guides

User sees:

followed guides
quick access to their profiles
4. Activity reinforcement

When user completes a visit:

"Follow this guide for more"

This is critical.

8.4 — GUIDE VISIBILITY ACROSS THE APP

This is where most apps fail.

You need consistency.

Where guides appear (mandatory)
1. Preview Card
photo
name
rating
2. List Cards
visible under title
not hidden
3. Visit Page
strong presence
follow button
4. Completion Screen
follow prompt
5. Saved → Guides
dedicated section
What you must NOT do

Do not:

hide guide identity
make users “hunt” for creators

If users don’t remember guides → following becomes useless.

8.5 — GUIDE DISCOVERY (PHASE 1 vs PHASE 2)
Phase 1 (curated)

You already defined:

guides are selected
high-quality content
B2B distribution

So:

👉 No need for a dedicated “Explore Guides” tab yet

Phase 2 (open platform)

You may introduce:

Guide discovery layer

Examples:

trending guides
top-rated guides
new creators
by theme / region
Strategic point

Do NOT build this now.

You don’t have:

enough guides
enough data
enough usage

Premature exposure = empty experience.

8.6 — GUIDE CREDIBILITY SYSTEM

You need a minimum credibility layer.

Otherwise Phase 2 becomes garbage.

Minimum v1

Each guide shows:

⭐ Average rating
# of visits
# of followers
Why this matters

Users subconsciously evaluate:

"Is this guide legit?"

Without credibility → low trust → low conversion

8.7 — GUIDE THEMES & SPECIALIZATION

Each guide should expose:

Main themes:
- history
- architecture
- food
- street art
- etc.
Why this matters

This allows:

user alignment (“this guide matches my interests”)
later recommendation system
better discovery clustering
8.8 — GUIDE → VISIT RELATIONSHIP

Each visit must clearly belong to:

ONE primary guide

Do not support:

multi-guide ownership (for now)
shared ownership
ambiguous authorship

That creates complexity and legal issues.

8.9 — FOLLOW TRIGGERS (CRITICAL UX DETAIL)

Users don’t follow randomly.

You must trigger follow at the right moments.

Best trigger points
1. After completing a visit
"You enjoyed this visit.
Follow this guide for more."
2. On visit page

Visible but not intrusive.

3. On guide profile

Primary CTA

Worst trigger (avoid)

Popup during playback.

That breaks immersion.

8.10 — NOTIFICATION SYSTEM (GUIDE-DRIVEN)

You enabled notifications earlier.

Now we define structure.

Types of notifications
1. New visit
"New tour from [Guide Name]"
2. New location
"[Guide Name] just published in Rome"
3. Recommended
"New tour you might like from a guide you follow"
Critical rule

👉 Notifications must be rare and relevant

Otherwise:

users disable them
system becomes useless
8.11 — RANKING IMPACT OF GUIDES

This is subtle but important.

Your ranking should consider:

Visit quality (rating)
Guide quality (rating + followers)
User preference (history)
Phase 1

Mostly:

curated content
no need for heavy ranking logic
Phase 2

Guide reputation becomes a key signal.

8.12 — STRATEGIC POSITIONING YOU JUST CREATED

Without saying it explicitly, you designed:

Hybrid between:
- Google Maps (location + route)
- Spotify (content browsing)
- YouTube (creator following)

That is powerful.

But it only works if:

guide identity is consistent
follow system is meaningful
discovery remains clean
HARD TRUTH (IMPORTANT)

You are trying to build:

a map-based app
a content platform
a creator ecosystem

Most products fail because they try all three and execute none well.

👉 Your current structure is coherent enough to attempt it

But only if you:

keep UI simple
don’t overbuild early
prioritize the discover → play → follow loop
WHAT IS NOW FULLY DEFINED

You now have:

✅ Discover system
✅ Visit system
✅ Player system
✅ Guide system

This is already a complete product backbone.

NEXT STEP

We now move to:

STEP 9 — SAVED / DOWNLOAD / TOKEN SYSTEM (DETAILED)

Because this is where:

offline experience
monetization control
content protection

all intersect.

And this is also where most apps become either:

too restrictive (bad UX)
too loose (content leaks)

Before I proceed, one key question:

Question — Download intent

When user taps SAVE, should it:

A

only bookmark (no download)

B

automatically download

C

ask user:
“Save only” or “Download for offline”

This decision impacts:

storage usage
friction
offline adoption
token logic

Answer that, and we’ll design the full system.

Question. download intent: the visitor can "like" a visit without downloading it (it will register the visit in the visitor's liked visits, and increase its visibility in recommandations/listing for others), to download it the visitor clicks on another button "add to my watchlist" which will trigger the download (and encryption/securing/token creation...), the button will only be available in App and not on the web version

Good. This is a strong decision if you execute it cleanly.
Right now it’s structurally sound—but there are two risks:

You’re introducing two mental models (Like vs Watchlist) → can confuse users
You’re coupling download + rights control + offline + monetization → high complexity

We’ll fix both by making the system mechanically simple and behaviorally obvious.

STEP 9 — SAVED / DOWNLOAD / TOKEN SYSTEM (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome

We define:

Like vs Watchlist vs Activity (clear separation)
Download lifecycle (technical + UX)
Token system (enforcement without friction)
Auto-cleaning rules
App vs Web behavior
Edge cases (critical)
9.1 — THREE DISTINCT USER STATES (MANDATORY CLARITY)

You now have 3 buckets:

LIKE = preference signal (social + algorithm)
WATCHLIST = offline intent (downloaded content)
ACTIVITY = actual usage (history + progress)

If these blur → your app becomes confusing.

1. LIKE (Lightweight)

User taps:

❤️ Like
Effects:
Adds to: Saved → Liked
Increases ranking weight
No download
No storage cost
No token

👉 This is your discovery amplifier

2. WATCHLIST (Heavy action)

User taps:

⬇ Add to Watchlist
Effects:
Triggers download
Creates encrypted local package
Generates token
Adds to: Saved → Watchlist

👉 This is your offline + ownership-like behavior

3. ACTIVITY (Automatic)

System logs:

In progress
Completed
Recently played

👉 No manual action required

9.2 — UI RULE (CRITICAL)

On every visit card / page:

[❤️ Like]     [⬇ Add to Watchlist]
Strict rules
Both must be visible
They must not look identical
Watchlist must feel “heavier”
Avoid this mistake

Do NOT:

hide Watchlist behind menus
combine Like + Save

You will destroy clarity.

9.3 — DOWNLOAD FLOW (APP ONLY)

You defined:

not available on web

Correct.

Flow

User taps:

⬇ Add to Watchlist
Step 1 — Confirmation (optional but recommended)
Download this visit for offline use?

Options:

Download
Cancel
Step 2 — Download begins

UI shows:

progress bar
status: “Preparing visit”
Step 3 — Local package creation

Package includes:

- route data
- steps metadata
- audio files
- essential images
- token
- encryption layer
Step 4 — Completion

User sees:

✓ Added to Watchlist
9.4 — TOKEN SYSTEM (SIMPLIFIED BUT STRICT)

Your idea is correct but dangerous if over-engineered.

We simplify without weakening control.

Each downloaded visit has:
token = {
  visit_id
  user_id
  valid_from
  valid_until
  last_refresh
}
Validation happens:
1. At playback start
2. Periodically (background check)
If token valid → play continues
If token expired

Show:

This visit is no longer available offline.
Reconnect to refresh access.

Options:

Refresh
Remove
Cancel
9.5 — TOKEN REFRESH LOGIC
Phase 1 (your choice)
Valid for specific period
Refreshed daily when online
Phase 2
Valid for X days (2–3)
Reset on each playback
Important simplification

👉 Do NOT refresh “every night blindly”

Instead:

Refresh only when:
- app opens
- visit is accessed

Otherwise:

useless background calls
battery drain
failure points
9.6 — AUTO-DELETION RULE (YOUR 50 DAYS)

You proposed:

delete after 50 days unused

Good instinct.

Final rule
If:
last_played > 50 days

→ delete package automatically
UX requirement

Before deletion (soft warning):

This visit will be removed soon due to inactivity.

Optional but recommended.

9.7 — STORAGE MANAGEMENT (MISSING BUT CRITICAL)

You didn’t mention it. That’s a blind spot.

You MUST include:
Watchlist storage screen
Saved → Watchlist → Storage

Shows:

list of downloads
size per visit
total storage used
Actions:
delete visit
delete all
manage storage
Why this matters

Without this:

users uninstall your app
blame storage bloat
9.8 — WEB VS APP DIFFERENCE (CLEAR LINE)
Web:
Like available
No Watchlist
No download
Streaming only
Limited experience
App:
Full system
Offline capability
Token enforcement

👉 This creates natural conversion pressure to install app

Good.

9.9 — EDGE CASES (YOU MUST HANDLE)
Case 1 — User deletes app

→ all downloads gone
→ expected behavior

Case 2 — User logs out

You must decide:

Recommended:
keep local packages
require re-auth for playback
Case 3 — Corrupted package
Visit data corrupted.
Re-download required.
Case 4 — Partial download

Allow:

resume download

Do NOT:

force restart from 0
Case 5 — No internet + expired token

Block playback.

No workaround.

9.10 — WATCHLIST UX STRUCTURE

Inside:

Saved → Watchlist

Each item shows:

title
guide
status:
downloaded
partially downloaded
expired
last accessed
Quick actions
Play
Remove
Redownload
9.11 — CRITICAL UX IMPROVEMENT (YOU SHOULD ADD)

Right now your model is correct but slightly rigid.

Add this:

When user taps PLAY on a non-downloaded visit:

Play now (stream)
or
Download for offline?
Why this matters

Otherwise:

users must pre-plan everything
friction increases

This gives:

flexibility
better onboarding
9.12 — STRATEGIC CONSEQUENCE

You just created:

Like = growth
Watchlist = retention
Token = control

That’s solid.

HARD TRUTH

Your system is already complex enough to fail in execution if you:

over-engineer encryption
overcomplicate token refresh
create UI confusion between Like / Watchlist / Activity

👉 You must keep:

UI dead simple
backend strict but invisible
WHAT IS NOW FULLY DEFINED

You now have:

✅ Discover
✅ Visit
✅ Player
✅ Guide
✅ Save / Download / Token

This is a complete product loop.

NEXT STEP

We now close the core user experience with:

STEP 10 — SEARCH, FILTERS, AND DISCOVERY ENGINE

This is where:

relevance is built
scalability starts
monetization becomes real later

Before proceeding, answer this:

Search behavior priority

When a user searches, what should dominate?

A

Location-first (closest experiences)

B

Relevance-first (best matching content)

C

Hybrid (context-aware mix)

Choose carefully. This affects your entire ranking system.

by default, the maps locks to GPS coordinates (toggle button on the main screen is "on" to search "near me". If the visitor types a city name in the search bar, a pop-up could help specify if the user is searching for a given city ("yes"/"no" choices), if "yes" then list of city names show up in the search bar as "drop down" and when selected the map will focus/recenter the view at the GPS location of the city selected, if "no" then map remains centered to current GPS location and search bar will disregard city mentions and filter on everything else but city names. this process eliminates the risk of being "recentered" to another city while searching for other elements

Your instinct (prevent accidental recentering) is correct. Your solution (force a yes/no popup on city detection) is over-engineered and will hurt flow. You’re inserting friction on every ambiguous query.

You need zero-interruption disambiguation, not modal decisions.

STEP 10 — SEARCH, FILTERS, DISCOVERY ENGINE (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome
No blocking popups during search
Deterministic behavior (user always understands what’s happening)
Clean separation between “Near Me” and “Search Elsewhere”
Ranking that scales later without redesign
10.1 — CORE MODEL (LOCK THIS)
Search Context = {
  location_mode: NEAR_ME | FIXED_LOCATION,
  location_anchor: GPS | CITY | MAP_CENTER,
  query: text,
  filters: {...}
}

Everything flows from this.

10.2 — NO POPUP POLICY (CRITICAL)

❌ Reject:

“Is this a city? yes/no”

Why:

interrupts typing
breaks speed
feels dumb (user already knows what they typed)

👉 Replace with inline intelligence + visible state

10.3 — SEARCH BAR BEHAVIOR (CLEAN MODEL)
When user types

You show live suggestions dropdown with 2 sections:

[Locations]
Paris, France
Paris, Texas
Rome, Italy

[Visits / Themes / Guides]
“street art”
“roman history”
Guide: John Doe
When user selects a LOCATION

→ You switch context:

location_mode = FIXED_LOCATION
location_anchor = selected_city

→ Map recenters

→ UI shows:

📍 Paris, France   [✕]
When user types but selects NON-location

→ Stay in:

location_mode = NEAR_ME

→ Filter results only

10.4 — “NEAR ME” TOGGLE (YOU WERE RIGHT)

Default:

[📍 Near Me ✓]
When ON:
anchored to GPS
results sorted by proximity
When OFF:
map free / or fixed to selected location
Important UX addition

When OFF, show:

📍 Searching in: Paris   [Change]
10.5 — MAP BEHAVIOR
Case 1 — Near Me ON
map follows user (soft follow, not aggressive)
results update dynamically
Case 2 — City selected
map locks to city
no GPS pullback
user can pan manually
Case 3 — Manual pan

If user drags map:

Show:

Search this area

This is standard and expected.

10.6 — YOUR ORIGINAL PROBLEM (SOLVED CLEANLY)

You wanted:

avoid accidental recentering when typing

Here’s the clean solution:

👉 Recenter ONLY when user explicitly selects a location

NOT when:

typing
partial matches
keywords containing city names
10.7 — SEARCH TYPES (SUPPORTED)

Your engine must support:

1. Location
Paris
Rome
2. Themes
history
food
street art
3. Guides
guide name
4. Mixed queries
“Rome food tour”
“Paris architecture night”
10.8 — FILTER SYSTEM (MINIMAL BUT POWERFUL)

Do NOT overload filters.

Start with:

Core filters
Distance (nearby / far)
Duration
Rating
Themes
Transport mode
Optional (later)
price
difficulty
language
UI

Bottom sheet:

Filters ⚙️
10.9 — SORTING LOGIC (IMPORTANT)

Default sort:

Hybrid score =

w1 * proximity
+ w2 * rating
+ w3 * popularity
+ w4 * personalization
Phase 1 simplification
Sort by:
1. proximity
2. rating

Keep it simple.

10.10 — RESULT DISPLAY MODES

You must support both:

1. Map view (default)
pins
clusters
route previews
2. List view
vertical scroll
cards
Toggle:
[Map | List]
10.11 — ZERO RESULT STATE (IMPORTANT)

If no results:

No visits found here.

Try:
- expanding area
- changing filters
- searching another city

Add CTA:

Explore popular destinations
10.12 — GUIDE INTEGRATION IN SEARCH

When user searches:

👉 Include guide results (small section)

Guides
- John Doe (12 tours)

This reinforces your platform model.

10.13 — PERSONALIZATION (LIGHT, NOT HEAVY)

Use:

liked visits
completed visits
followed guides

To slightly boost results.

Do NOT:

over-personalize early
create filter bubbles
10.14 — STRATEGIC CONSEQUENCE

Your system becomes:

Map-first exploration
+ search refinement
+ creator discovery

This is correct.

HARD TRUTH

Your original idea tried to solve a real problem
but used a UI-heavy solution for a logic problem

👉 Correct approach:

fix logic (explicit selection required)
keep UI frictionless
WHAT IS NOW FULLY DEFINED

You now have:

✅ Discover
✅ Visit
✅ Player
✅ Guide
✅ Save / Token
✅ Search / Filters

NEXT STEP

We now complete the user side with:

STEP 11 — NOTIFICATIONS, ACTIVITY, AND RETENTION SYSTEM

This is where:

users come back
guides gain traction
your app becomes habit-forming

Before I proceed:

Question — Notification aggressiveness

How far do you want to push notifications?

A

Minimal (only essential: downloads, tokens, critical updates)

B

Balanced (guide activity + recommendations + system)

C

Aggressive (growth-focused, frequent nudges)

Be honest. This defines your retention vs annoyance trade-off.

B. balanced. but i will also add targetted ads as notifications or mixed into the visit in order to propose local deals and discounts

Good choice on B (balanced). That’s the only sustainable baseline.

But your second point—ads via notifications or inside visits—is where most products quietly destroy their own UX and never recover.

I’m going to be direct:

👉 If you inject ads poorly into a guided, immersive, audio-first experience, you will break trust immediately.

So we’re going to structure this properly, or not at all.

STEP 11 — NOTIFICATIONS, ACTIVITY & RETENTION SYSTEM (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome

We define:

notification types and limits
where ads can exist (and where they must NOT)
how retention loops work
how Activity reinforces usage
how monetization integrates without breaking UX
11.1 — NOTIFICATION SYSTEM (BALANCED MODEL)
Core principle
Notifications must feel useful, not promotional

If users perceive:

“this app is pushing stuff”

→ they disable notifications
→ your entire follow system becomes useless

Notification Categories (v1)
1. Guide Activity (PRIMARY)
New visit from a guide you follow

Example:

“New tour from Maria – Hidden Barcelona”

👉 This is your main retention driver

2. Contextual Recommendations
Nearby or relevant visits

Example:

“3 top-rated tours near you right now”

Use sparingly.

3. System Notifications
Download complete
Token expiring
Visit removed soon

These are functional, not promotional.

4. Activity Nudges (light)
Resume your visit
You left a tour unfinished

Keep subtle.

11.2 — NOTIFICATION RULES (STRICT)
Frequency cap

You must enforce:

Max 1–2 notifications per day (default)
Relevance filter

Only send if:

High relevance score

Otherwise → skip

User control

In settings:

Toggle per category:
- Guide updates
- Recommendations
- System
11.3 — ADS & PROMOTIONS (YOU NEED DISCIPLINE HERE)

You said:

“targeted ads via notifications or mixed into visits”

This is the most dangerous part of your entire model.

NON-NEGOTIABLE RULE
DO NOT INTERRUPT THE GUIDED EXPERIENCE WITH ADS

No:

audio ads mid narration
popups during steps
forced interruptions

If you do this → users leave.

11.4 — WHERE ADS ARE ALLOWED (SAFE ZONES)
1. BEFORE VISIT START (SAFE)

Example:

Before starting:
"Nearby café offering 10% discount"

User can:

accept
ignore
2. AFTER VISIT COMPLETION (BEST SPOT)

Example:

"Restaurants near this tour"
"Discount at museum you just visited"

👉 This is your strongest monetization point

Context is perfect.

3. PASSIVE MAP LAYER (ACCEPTABLE)

Small markers:

🍽 restaurant
🎟 attraction

Tap = optional.

Do NOT auto-trigger.

4. VISIT PAGE (NOT PLAYBACK)

Subtle section:

"Nearby deals"
11.5 — WHERE ADS MUST NOT EXIST

❌ During audio playback
❌ Blocking the map
❌ As forced popups mid-step
❌ As fake “content” disguised as guide narration

11.6 — SMART MONETIZATION MODEL (WHAT YOU’RE ACTUALLY BUILDING)

You are not building:

an ad platform

You are building:

Contextual tourism monetization layer

Better framing:

Relevant local opportunities
11.7 — ACTIVITY SYSTEM (RETENTION CORE)

You already separated Activity → good.

Now we structure it properly.

Activity Tabs
In Progress
Recent
Completed
In Progress (CRITICAL)

Shows:

current visit
step number
% progress
resume button

👉 This must be one-tap resume

Recent
last X visits opened
quick re-entry
Completed
finished visits
rating status
revisit option
11.8 — RETENTION LOOPS (YOUR REAL ENGINE)

You now have 3 loops:

Loop 1 — Discovery Loop
Discover → Play → Complete → Discover more
Loop 2 — Creator Loop
Visit → Guide → Follow → Notification → New visit → Repeat
Loop 3 — Offline Loop
Download → Travel → Use offline → Resume → Repeat

👉 If these 3 loops work, your product survives.

If not, it dies regardless of features.

11.9 — SMART NUDGE SYSTEM (IMPORTANT)

You should implement light nudges, not spam.

Examples
Resume nudge

“Continue your Rome tour”

Contextual nudge

“You’re near 2 top-rated tours”

Guide nudge

“New tour from a guide you follow”

Avoid
generic spam
repeated notifications
irrelevant pushes
11.10 — USER CONTROL PANEL (MANDATORY)

In Profile → Notifications:

[✓] Guide updates
[✓] Recommendations
[✓] Nearby suggestions
[✓] System alerts
Also allow:
Pause notifications
11.11 — FUTURE (BUT PREPARE NOW)

Later you can add:

geo-triggered suggestions
time-based offers (e.g., lunch nearby)
partner integrations

BUT only if:

Relevance > Intrusion
HARD TRUTH (IMPORTANT)

Most apps fail here.

They:

start with good UX
add monetization
slowly degrade experience

👉 You must protect:

The guided experience is sacred

Everything else is secondary.

WHAT IS NOW FULLY DEFINED

You now have:

✅ Discover
✅ Visit
✅ Player
✅ Guide
✅ Save / Token
✅ Search
✅ Notifications
✅ Activity
✅ Monetization boundaries

NEXT STEP (FINAL CORE PIECE)

We now complete the system with:

STEP 12 — ADMIN / CONTROL LAYER (PHASE 1 + PHASE 2)

This includes:

content control
access management (your B2B model)
guide onboarding logic
library segmentation
activation/deactivation
analytics

This is where your Phase 1 business model becomes real.

If you're ready, I’ll build the Admin + Platform Control Architecture next.

ok, i agree with you. let's keep moving

Good. Now we move to the part that actually makes your business viable.

Up to now, everything we built is user-facing logic.
Now we define the control layer that allows you to:

enforce Phase 1 (curated, B2B)
transition cleanly to Phase 2 (open platform)
manage libraries, access, and rights
control quality and risk

If this layer is weak → your model collapses operationally.

STEP 12 — ADMIN / CONTROL LAYER (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome

We define:

Admin roles and permissions
Library system (your core business model)
Access control (B2B + Phase 2 evolution)
Guide onboarding & validation
Content moderation
Activation/deactivation system
Analytics backbone
12.1 — CORE CONCEPT (YOU NEED TO UNDERSTAND THIS)

Your system is not just:

Users ↔ Content

It is:

Libraries ↔ Access ↔ Content ↔ Users

👉 Library = your product in Phase 1

Everything revolves around it.

12.2 — ADMIN ROLES (MINIMUM STRUCTURE)
1. Super Admin

Full control over:

platform
libraries
guides
content
access rules
2. Content Admin

Controls:

visits
guides
approvals
quality
3. Client Admin (Phase 1 B2B)

Represents:

cruise company
tour operator

Controls:

assigned libraries
internal usage
access monitoring (limited)
4. Guide (Creator role)

Controls:

own content
own profile
analytics (limited)
12.3 — LIBRARY SYSTEM (CORE OF PHASE 1)

This is your main business object.

Structure
Library
 ├ name
 ├ description
 ├ included visits
 ├ validity rules
 ├ access rules
Example
Mediterranean Premium Package
 ├ Rome Ancient Tour
 ├ Barcelona Gothic Walk
 ├ Athens Mythology Route
Sub-libraries (IMPORTANT)
Library
 ├ Sub-library A (City)
 ├ Sub-library B (Theme)

Allows:

flexible packaging
reuse
scaling
12.4 — ACCESS SYSTEM (PHASE 1)

You described it well. We formalize it.

Access Object
Access
 ├ library_id
 ├ client_id
 ├ start_date
 ├ end_date
 ├ max_concurrent_sessions
 ├ status (active/inactive)
Credential Model
Access Credentials
 ├ ID
 ├ Password

Shared access allowed (your model).

Enforcement

System checks:

Is access valid?
Is within timeframe?
Is concurrent limit respected?
Admin Capabilities
activate / deactivate access
extend validity
modify libraries
revoke access instantly
12.5 — PHASE 2 TRANSITION (CRITICAL DESIGN)

You said:

Phase 1 = Phase 2 with restrictions

Correct.

So architect it like this:
Phase 1
access REQUIRED
libraries gated
content curated
Phase 2
access OPTIONAL
open catalog
monetization per visit
Meaning

Do NOT hardcode:

User must belong to library

Instead:

Access rules applied conditionally
12.6 — GUIDE ONBOARDING SYSTEM
Phase 1
Admin creates guide
Admin assigns contract
Admin uploads/validates content
Phase 2
Guide self-registers
Guide uploads content
Admin validates (optional or partial)
Required fields
Guide
 ├ identity
 ├ languages
 ├ themes
 ├ contract type
 ├ status (approved / pending / blocked)
12.7 — CONTENT MODERATION

You need this even in Phase 1.

Visit status
draft
under review
approved
rejected
inactive
Admin actions
approve
reject
request changes
deactivate
Why this matters

Phase 2 will explode without moderation.

12.8 — ACTIVATION / DEACTIVATION SYSTEM

You explicitly requested this earlier.

Everything must be toggleable:
Visit
active / inactive
Guide
active / suspended
Library
available / unavailable
Access
enabled / disabled
Real-world use cases
remove problematic content instantly
end contract
restrict region
pause service for a client
12.9 — ANALYTICS (MINIMUM REQUIRED)

Do NOT overbuild dashboards.

Focus on what matters.

For Admin
Total visits played
Top visits
Top guides
Usage per client
Completion rates
For Guides
Number of plays
Completion rate
Average rating
Followers gained
Why this matters

Without feedback:

guides don’t improve
platform stagnates
12.10 — CONTENT PACKAGING LOGIC

You need flexibility here.

Visits can belong to:
Multiple libraries
Libraries can be:
- geographic (Paris pack)
- thematic (Art pack)
- client-specific (Cruise A pack)
Avoid this mistake

Do NOT:

duplicate visits per client

Always:

One visit → many libraries
12.11 — ACCESS CONTROL VS TOKEN SYSTEM

You now have two layers:

Layer 1 — Platform access
Library access (server-side)
Layer 2 — Device access
Token (local/offline)
Important

Do NOT mix them.

They serve different purposes.

12.12 — PHASE 1 → PHASE 2 SWITCH (REALITY CHECK)

You said:

“just lift restrictions”

Yes… but only if you designed it correctly.

You must ensure:
no dependency on client-based accounts
no hardcoded library-only visibility
visits can exist outside libraries
pricing layer can attach later
If you fail here

→ Phase 2 becomes a rewrite
→ not a switch

HARD TRUTH

Your admin layer is:

80% of your business value

The app is the interface.
This is the engine.

WHAT IS NOW FULLY DEFINED

You now have:

✅ Visitor experience (complete)
✅ Creator experience (partial but structured)
✅ Guide system
✅ Monetization boundaries
✅ Admin / control layer
✅ Phase 1 → Phase 2 strategy

WHAT REMAINS (FINAL STEPS)

To complete your system:

STEP 13 — CREATOR EXPERIENCE (FULL)
visit creation UX (refine your wizard)
publishing flow
editing / versioning
STEP 14 — DATA MODEL & API STRUCTURE
full schema
endpoints
relationships
STEP 15 — DEPLOYMENT / ARCHITECTURE STRATEGY
app + web + backend
offline sync
scalability
Recommendation

Next, we should go to:

👉 STEP 13 — CREATOR EXPERIENCE (DETAILED)

Because:

you already started it (your wizard)
it directly impacts content quality
bad creator UX = bad content = dead platform

If you’re ready, I’ll dissect and upgrade your creator flow into a production-grade system.

yes please

Good. This is the most underestimated part—and the one that will quietly determine whether your platform scales or dies.

Blunt truth:

👉 Bad creator UX = low-quality content = no retention = no platform

You already built a solid base (your wizard), but right now it’s still form-driven, not creator-driven.

We’re going to fix that.

STEP 13 — CREATOR EXPERIENCE (PRODUCTION-GRADE v1.0)
Outcome

We define:

the full creator journey
a clean creation workflow (not just forms)
how routing integrates properly
how quality is enforced without friction
how editing/versioning works
how publishing works (Phase 1 vs Phase 2)
13.1 — CREATOR JOURNEY (END-TO-END)
Phase 1 (curated)
Admin creates guide
↓
Guide logs in
↓
Creates visit
↓
Admin reviews
↓
Approved → published → assigned to libraries
Phase 2 (open)
Guide signs up
↓
Creates visit
↓
Auto + optional review
↓
Published
↓
Appears in discovery

👉 Same system. Different gates.

13.2 — CORE PROBLEM WITH MOST CREATOR TOOLS

Most tools are:

Fill form → Save → Done

This leads to:

poor storytelling
inconsistent structure
bad pacing
unusable routes
Your tool must be:
Build experience → Preview → Refine → Publish

That’s a completely different mindset.

13.3 — CREATOR DASHBOARD (ENTRY POINT)
Main screen
My Visits

[Create New Visit]

List:
- Drafts
- Published
- Under review

Each item shows:

title
status
last edited
quick edit button
13.4 — VISIT CREATION FLOW (RESTRUCTURED)

We replace your current flat wizard with 5 structured stages.

STAGE 1 — CORE DEFINITION
Title
Short description
Themes
Language
Main transport mode
Estimated duration

👉 No overload. Fast start.

STAGE 2 — ROUTE BUILDING (MOST IMPORTANT)

This is where your current system becomes powerful.

Creator adds steps:
Step 1 → Step 2 → Step 3

Via:

map click
GPS capture (on-site)
address search
Then:
[Generate Route]

System:

calls routing API
draws route
computes distance + duration
Creator can:
reorder steps (drag & drop)
regenerate route
change transport mode

👉 This is the backbone of your product

CRITICAL IMPROVEMENT (YOU NEED THIS)
Visual timeline + map sync

When selecting a step:

highlight it on map
show its position in sequence

Without this → creators get lost.

STAGE 3 — STEP CONTENT (PER STEP)

Each step must be created as a self-contained experience.

Step editor
Title
Audio narration (record/upload)
Description (optional)
Images
Video link
Trigger radius
Transport notes
Safety notes
UX improvement you must add

👉 “Preview this step” button

Plays:

audio
shows media
simulates user experience
STAGE 4 — EXPERIENCE REVIEW

Most tools skip this. That’s why they fail.

Creator sees:
Full route
Step sequence
Estimated duration
Must include:

👉 Simulated playback mode

Play visit (simulation)

Simulates:

step progression
audio flow
transitions

👉 Without this, creators cannot judge quality.

STAGE 5 — PUBLISH
Phase 1
Submit for review
Phase 2
Publish
Required validation before publish
at least 2–3 steps
audio exists
route generated
duration coherent
13.5 — STEP QUALITY GUIDANCE (IMPORTANT)

You must guide creators without annoying them.

Add soft constraints

Example:

Recommended:
- 1–3 minutes per step
- clear audio
- avoid long text
Optional warnings
This step is very long (>10 min)

👉 Do NOT block creation
👉 Do guide quality

13.6 — ROUTE vs CONTENT SEPARATION (YOU MUST FIX THIS)

Right now your wizard mixes:

transport types
routing logic
accessibility
metadata
You must separate:
1. Route computation profile
walking
cycling
driving
2. Metadata (informational)
metro nearby
bus access
safety
accessibility

👉 If you don’t separate these:

→ routing becomes inconsistent
→ UX becomes confusing

13.7 — EDITING & VERSIONING (MISSING BUT CRITICAL)

You need version control.

When editing a published visit:
Create new version
Flow
Published v1
↓
Edit → Draft v2
↓
Publish v2
↓
Replace v1
Why this matters
avoids breaking active users
avoids corrupt downloads
supports improvements
13.8 — MEDIA MANAGEMENT

Creators need control.

Media library (per visit)
list of uploaded assets
reuse across steps
delete / replace

👉 Without this:

duplication
chaos
heavy storage
13.9 — CREATOR ANALYTICS (LIGHT BUT USEFUL)

Show:

Plays
Completion rate
Average rating
Followers gained
Why

Creators improve when they see results.

13.10 — PHASE 1 VS PHASE 2 DIFFERENCE
Phase 1
admin-assisted creation
strong validation
controlled publishing
Phase 2
self-service creation
lighter validation
reputation-based filtering

👉 Same system. Different rules.

13.11 — CREATOR EXPERIENCE LOOP

You want this:

Create → Publish → Get plays → Gain followers → Create more

If creators don’t get feedback:

→ they stop creating

HARD TRUTH

Most platforms fail because:

creator tools are boring
creation is slow
no feedback loop

👉 Your advantage:
You’re building a structured storytelling tool, not just uploads.

WHAT IS NOW FULLY DEFINED

You now have:

✅ Visitor experience
✅ Discovery system
✅ Playback system
✅ Guide system
✅ Save / Token system
✅ Admin layer
✅ Creator experience

FINAL STEPS TO COMPLETE YOUR SYSTEM

We now need:

STEP 14 — DATA MODEL & API (CRITICAL)
database schema
relationships
endpoints
STEP 15 — SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
frontend (PWA + App)
backend
offline sync
routing integration
scaling
Recommendation

Next step:

👉 STEP 14 — DATA MODEL & API STRUCTURE

Because:

everything we defined now needs to be translated into real system logic
this will expose hidden inconsistencies

If you're ready, I’ll design the full data schema + API layer (production-ready structure).

yes let's do that

Good. Now we stop talking in product language and translate everything into system language.

This is where weak ideas get exposed.
If the data model is wrong, the UX was fake.

We are going to define a production-grade logical schema + API structure for Let’s Get Out!, aligned with:

Phase 1 = curated, library-gated, B2B-controlled
Phase 2 = open platform, self-serve creators, open consumer access
one product, two operating modes
route-based visits
offline packages + token control
guide-following
map-first discovery
creator wizard with route and step logic, which is already visible in your current step-based creation file.
STEP 14 — DATA MODEL & API STRUCTURE (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome

We define:

the main entities
their relationships
what must be versioned
what must be library-gated
what must be tokenized
the API families
the hidden complexity you must not ignore
14.1 — CORE ENTITY MAP

At the highest level, your system is:

User
GuideProfile
Visit
VisitVersion
VisitStep
Library
LibraryItem
AccessGrant
OfflinePackage
OfflineToken
Follow
Like
WatchlistItem
PlaybackSession
Review
Notification

That is the real backbone.

Not all of these are equally visible to users, but all are structurally useful.

14.2 — USERS VS GUIDE PROFILES

You must separate:

A. User

Authentication / identity / permissions

B. GuideProfile

Public creator identity

This is important because:

one user may become a guide later
admin-created guide accounts in Phase 1 may still map to user accounts
public profile data is not the same thing as auth data
Suggested structure
users
id
email
password_hash
status
role
created_at
updated_at
guide_profiles
id
user_id (nullable in Phase 1 if created centrally before activation)
display_name
bio
photo_url
languages_json
themes_json
regions_json
rating_avg
rating_count
followers_count
status
created_at
updated_at

status:

draft
active
suspended
archived
14.3 — VISIT VS VISIT VERSION

This is non-negotiable.

You need:

A. visits

the persistent public object

B. visit_versions

the editable/publishable content snapshot

Why:

editing a published visit must not break live usage
downloads must refer to stable content
review workflow needs draft/published separation
visits
id
guide_profile_id
current_published_version_id
slug
visibility_mode
monetization_mode
status
created_at
updated_at

visibility_mode:

library_only
public
unlisted

monetization_mode:

included
free
pay_per_view
ad_supported
mixed

status:

draft
published
inactive
suspended
visit_versions
id
visit_id
version_number
title
short_description
long_description
hero_image_url
hero_video_url
main_language
themes_json
main_route_profile
estimated_duration_min
distance_m
step_count
start_lat
start_lng
end_lat
end_lng
route_geometry_json
route_provider
route_generated_at
content_status
published_at
created_by_user_id
created_at
updated_at

content_status:

draft
under_review
approved
rejected
published
archived
14.4 — VISIT STEPS

Each version has its own step set.

This is correct because steps belong to the content snapshot, not to the abstract visit.

visit_steps
id
visit_version_id
step_index
title
description
audio_url
lat
lng
trigger_radius_m
duration_min
location_label
country
city
transport_metadata_json
emergency_tags_json
has_fee
has_accessibility
media_summary_json
created_at
updated_at

You are currently storing some step metadata bundled in JSON-like structures in your wizard flow, including images, duration, and location labels.
That is fine for prototyping, but production-grade architecture should split stable fields from flexible media metadata.

14.5 — STEP MEDIA

Do not keep all media buried forever in JSON blobs.

You need a proper media table.

visit_step_media
id
visit_step_id
media_type
url
caption
sort_order
meta_json
created_at
updated_at

media_type:

image
text
video_link
quiz
external_link
future_interactive

This keeps you extensible without destroying queryability.

14.6 — LIBRARY SYSTEM

This is the heart of Phase 1.

libraries
id
name
description
library_type
status
visibility_mode
created_at
updated_at

library_type:

geographic
thematic
client_specific
curated_collection

visibility_mode:

internal
assigned_only
public_catalog
library_items
id
library_id
visit_id
sort_order
active_from
active_until
created_at
updated_at

Important:

assign visit, not version
access logic resolves to the currently valid published version unless pinned otherwise

Later you may add version pinning for enterprise consistency, but not necessarily in v1.

14.7 — B2B ACCESS GRANTS

This is your Phase 1 gate system.

You do not just have users. You have client-controlled access envelopes.

clients
id
name
client_type
status
created_at
updated_at

client_type:

cruise_company
tour_operator
institution
reseller
other
access_grants
id
client_id
library_id
credential_username
credential_password_hash
valid_from
valid_until
max_concurrent_sessions
status
notes
created_at
updated_at

status:

active
inactive
expired
revoked

This models your “ID/password access to selected library for selected time” cleanly.

14.8 — USER-LIBRARY ACCESS IN PHASE 2

Do not rely only on B2B access grants forever.

You also need a more generic access layer for consumer rights.

user_entitlements
id
user_id
visit_id (nullable)
library_id (nullable)
entitlement_type
valid_from
valid_until
status
source
created_at
updated_at

entitlement_type:

purchase
subscription
promo
grant
bundle_access

This is what prevents a painful rewrite later.

14.9 — LIKES, WATCHLIST, FOLLOWS

These must remain separate.

visit_likes
id
user_id
visit_id
created_at
watchlist_items
id
user_id
visit_id
state
download_state
last_played_at
last_token_refresh_at
auto_delete_after
created_at
updated_at

state:

active
removed
expired

download_state:

not_downloaded
queued
downloading
ready
corrupted
expired
guide_follows
id
user_id
guide_profile_id
created_at
14.10 — OFFLINE PACKAGES AND TOKENS

Keep package and token separate.

offline_packages

This can be partly local, but you still want server awareness.

id
user_id
visit_version_id
package_version
package_manifest_json
package_hash
downloaded_at
last_opened_at
status
created_at
updated_at

status:

active
stale
expired
removed
corrupted
offline_tokens
id
user_id
visit_version_id
token_value_hash
valid_from
valid_until
refresh_policy
last_refreshed_at
status
created_at
updated_at

refresh_policy:

daily_check
rolling_window
fixed_expiry

status:

valid
expired
revoked

You will likely keep the actual decryptable token material device-side and only a hashed/managed representation server-side.

14.11 — PLAYBACK / ACTIVITY MODEL

You need a persistent record of usage.

playback_sessions
id
user_id
visit_version_id
started_at
ended_at
last_step_index
completion_percent
mode
autoplay_enabled
location_mode
status
created_at
updated_at

mode:

app_offline
app_online
web_streaming

location_mode:

gps
manual
mixed

status:

in_progress
completed
abandoned

This powers:

Activity tab
resume
analytics
completion logic
14.12 — REVIEWS

Keep it simple first.

visit_reviews
id
user_id
visit_id
visit_version_id
rating
comment
status
created_at
updated_at

status:

visible
hidden
moderated

Why keep both visit_id and visit_version_id?

public score belongs to the visit
forensic quality analysis may need version-level attribution
14.13 — NOTIFICATIONS
notifications
id
user_id
type
title
body
action_url
payload_json
status
sent_at
read_at
created_at

type:

guide_new_visit
recommendation
resume_visit
token_expiring
package_removed
client_access_update
promo_offer

status:

queued
sent
read
dismissed
14.14 — PROMOTIONS / PARTNER OFFERS

Since you want contextual offers, model them explicitly. Do not fake them as content.

partner_offers
id
partner_name
title
description
offer_type
location_lat
location_lng
radius_m
valid_from
valid_until
targeting_rules_json
status
created_at
updated_at

offer_type:

discount
ticket
meal
activity
sponsored_recommendation

Then later:

match offers to visits/areas/themes
surface in safe zones only
14.15 — ADMIN / MODERATION STRUCTURES
guide_contracts

Useful for Phase 1.

id
guide_profile_id
contract_type
rights_mode
valid_from
valid_until
terms_reference
status
created_at
updated_at
content_reviews
id
visit_version_id
reviewed_by_user_id
review_status
review_notes
created_at
updated_at

review_status:

pending
approved
rejected
changes_requested
14.16 — RELATIONSHIP SUMMARY

The essential relationships are:

users 1—0..1 guide_profiles
guide_profiles 1—N visits
visits 1—N visit_versions
visit_versions 1—N visit_steps
visit_steps 1—N visit_step_media

libraries N—N visits (via library_items)
clients 1—N access_grants
users 1—N visit_likes
users 1—N watchlist_items
users 1—N playback_sessions
users N—N guide_profiles (via guide_follows)
users 1—N notifications
users 1—N visit_reviews

That is the spine.

14.17 — API FAMILIES

Now the API must reflect the product clearly.

You do not want one giant messy namespace.

Recommended families:

Auth / Users
Guides
Visits
Discovery
Libraries / Access
Watchlist / Offline
Playback / Activity
Reviews
Notifications
Admin / Moderation
Media / Routing
14.18 — AUTH / USERS API
Examples
Auth
POST /api/auth/register
POST /api/auth/login
POST /api/auth/logout
POST /api/auth/refresh
User profile
GET  /api/me
PUT  /api/me
PUT  /api/me/preferences
PUT  /api/me/notification-settings
14.19 — GUIDES API
GET  /api/guides
GET  /api/guides/:guideId
POST /api/guides/:guideId/follow
DELETE /api/guides/:guideId/follow
GET  /api/me/followed-guides

For creator self-management later:

PUT  /api/me/guide-profile
14.20 — VISITS API
Discovery/public
GET /api/visits/:visitId
GET /api/visits/:visitId/preview
GET /api/visits/:visitId/reviews
Creator/manage
POST /api/me/visits
GET  /api/me/visits
GET  /api/me/visits/:visitId
PUT  /api/me/visits/:visitId
POST /api/me/visits/:visitId/versions
GET  /api/me/visits/:visitId/versions
POST /api/me/visits/:visitId/submit-review
POST /api/me/visits/:visitId/publish
14.21 — STEP / MEDIA API
POST /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/steps
PUT  /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/steps/:stepId
DELETE /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/steps/:stepId

POST /api/media/upload-audio
POST /api/media/upload-image
DELETE /api/media/:mediaId

Your current wizard already anticipates separate upload endpoints for audio and image handling.

14.22 — ROUTING API

This should be your own abstraction layer.

POST /api/routing/generate

Request:

{
  "profile": "walking",
  "coordinates": [[14.42, 50.08], [14.43, 50.09]]
}

Response:

{
  "distance_m": 1800,
  "duration_s": 1450,
  "geometry": { "type": "LineString", "coordinates": [...] }
}

This protects you from provider lock-in.

14.23 — DISCOVERY API

This must support map/list from the same dataset.

GET /api/discovery/search

Params:

q
location_mode
lat
lng
city_id
bbox
themes[]
duration_min/max
rating_min
transport_mode
sort
page

This is your global persistent search brain.

14.24 — LIKES / WATCHLIST / OFFLINE API
Likes
POST   /api/visits/:visitId/like
DELETE /api/visits/:visitId/like
GET    /api/me/likes
Watchlist
POST   /api/visits/:visitId/watchlist
DELETE /api/me/watchlist/:itemId
GET    /api/me/watchlist
Offline
POST /api/offline/packages/:visitId/request
GET  /api/offline/packages/:visitId
POST /api/offline/tokens/:visitId/refresh
POST /api/offline/packages/:visitId/report-opened
POST /api/offline/packages/:visitId/report-removed
14.25 — PLAYBACK / ACTIVITY API
POST /api/playback/start
POST /api/playback/heartbeat
POST /api/playback/complete
GET  /api/me/activity/in-progress
GET  /api/me/activity/recent
GET  /api/me/activity/completed

Do not skip heartbeat/update logic entirely if you want resume and analytics to be reliable.

14.26 — REVIEWS API
POST /api/visits/:visitId/reviews
GET  /api/visits/:visitId/reviews
PUT  /api/me/reviews/:reviewId
DELETE /api/me/reviews/:reviewId

Moderation endpoints later under admin namespace.

14.27 — LIBRARIES / ACCESS API
Admin / B2B
POST /api/admin/libraries
PUT  /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId
POST /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId/items
DELETE /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId/items/:itemId

POST /api/admin/clients
POST /api/admin/access-grants
PUT  /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId
POST /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId/activate
POST /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId/deactivate
Access resolution
GET /api/me/entitlements
GET /api/me/libraries
14.28 — NOTIFICATIONS API
GET  /api/me/notifications
POST /api/me/notifications/:id/read
POST /api/me/notifications/read-all
PUT  /api/me/notification-settings
14.29 — ADMIN / MODERATION API
GET  /api/admin/guides
PUT  /api/admin/guides/:guideId/status

GET  /api/admin/visit-versions/review-queue
POST /api/admin/visit-versions/:versionId/approve
POST /api/admin/visit-versions/:versionId/reject
POST /api/admin/visit-versions/:versionId/request-changes

PUT  /api/admin/visits/:visitId/status
PUT  /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId/status
PUT  /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId/status
14.30 — CRITICAL DESIGN RULES

These must be frozen.

Rule 1

Public visits and library-gated visits must use the same core visit model.

Rule 2

Published content must be versioned.

Rule 3

Offline tokens and server entitlements must remain separate layers.

Rule 4

Search/discovery must resolve from one unified index, not separate map/list logic.

Rule 5

Guide identity is first-class, not metadata.

14.31 — HIDDEN RISKS YOU MUST NOT IGNORE
Risk 1 — Too much JSON

Flexible JSON fields are fine early, but if you dump everything into JSON forever, analytics and filtering become painful.

Risk 2 — No versioning

Without versioning, your offline packages and active users will break constantly.

Risk 3 — Hardcoding Phase 1 assumptions

If you tie everything to client libraries only, Phase 2 becomes a rewrite.

Risk 4 — Entitlement confusion

If library access, purchase access, and offline token logic get blurred, debugging rights problems becomes a nightmare.

14.32 — WHAT IS NOW FROZEN

You now have a coherent system backbone:

identity layer
guide layer
visit/version/step/media layer
library/access layer
like/watchlist/follow layer
offline package/token layer
playback/activity/review layer
notification/promo layer
admin/moderation layer
clean API family structure

That is enough to build the product correctly.

Next step

The next logical step is:

STEP 15 — SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE & DEPLOYMENT STRATEGY

That should define:

app vs web vs backend responsibilities
storage strategy
offline packaging flow
routing integration
search/indexing
scalability path
what to build first vs later

That is where we turn this from a spec into an execution plan.

can't we obtain phase 1 by building phase 2 and adding limitations and controls? i would really like to be in capacity to deploy phase 2 only by lifting the limitations created to attain what we want for phase 1. i want to design 1 system and 1 system only

Yes. That is exactly what you should do.

And to be blunt: if you build a true separate Phase 1 system, you are setting yourself up for wasted work, migration pain, and hidden rewrites later.

So the correct target is:

One system, one architecture, two operating modes

Not:

one Phase 1 product
then one Phase 2 product

But also not:

“same idea vaguely reused later”

It must be designed as:

Core platform
+ feature flags
+ access rules
+ workflow gates
+ visibility rules
+ contract rules

That is how you get your “lift restrictions later” model.

The short answer
Yes, Phase 1 should be obtained by:
building the Phase 2-capable system
then applying restrictions, controls, and gating layers
without changing the core data model or core UX architecture

That is the right strategy.

But here is the critical nuance

You do not build “Phase 2 full product” in the sense of implementing every open-marketplace feature immediately.

You build:

a Phase-2-compatible core system

with:

all the right entities
all the right relationships
all the right permission layers
all the right visibility logic

Then for Phase 1 you switch on:

curation
library gating
centralized account creation
controlled publishing
contract-bound guide activation
limited content visibility
B2B access grants

So the real formula is:

Phase 2 architecture
+ Phase 1 restrictions
= launch system

That is the correct framing.

What must be core and permanent

These must exist in the one system from day one:

1. Public-capable visit model

A visit must be able to be:

public
library-only
unlisted

Not recreated later.

2. Guide-owned content model

Guides must be first-class entities from day one.

Even if in Phase 1:

guide accounts are admin-created
publishing is controlled
3. Entitlement model

Access must support:

library grant
user entitlement
public/free access
pay-per-view later

Same system.

4. Review workflow

Publishing pipeline must support:

draft
under review
approved
published

Phase 1 uses strong review.
Phase 2 may relax it.

5. Search/discovery engine

One discovery engine.
Different visibility filters.

6. Notification and follow system

Same mechanism.
Different scale.

What becomes “restriction layers” in Phase 1

These are not separate architecture. They are policy layers.

Restriction Layer A — Guide onboarding
Phase 1
only admin can create/activate guides
Phase 2
self-registration enabled

Same guide_profiles table. Same guide pages.

Restriction Layer B — Publishing
Phase 1
guide submits
admin approves
only then published
Phase 2
publish directly or with lighter moderation

Same visit_versions. Same review statuses.

Restriction Layer C — Visibility
Phase 1
most content = library-only
visible only through active grants
Phase 2
content can be public/free/pay-per-view

Same visits.visibility_mode.

Restriction Layer D — User access
Phase 1
centrally created accounts / credentials
client-bound access
Phase 2
open registration

Same users system. Different signup policy.

Restriction Layer E — Monetization
Phase 1
B2B packaged libraries
premium curated content
Phase 2
free
ad-supported
pay-per-view
mixed

Same monetization-capable visit model.

What this means concretely

You should design the system so that Phase 1 is just Phase 2 with flags and rules.

For example:

Guide registration
ALLOW_PUBLIC_GUIDE_SIGNUP = false
User signup
ALLOW_PUBLIC_USER_SIGNUP = false
Direct publishing
ALLOW_DIRECT_CREATOR_PUBLISH = false
Public catalog
ALLOW_PUBLIC_VISIT_DISCOVERY = limited/false
Library gate enforcement
REQUIRE_LIBRARY_OR_ENTITLEMENT = true

Then later Phase 2 is not a rewrite. It is:

flip flags
change policies
expand surfaces

That is the correct design goal.

Where you must be careful

Here is the trap: people say “we’ll build one system” and then quietly hardcode Phase 1 logic everywhere.

That would destroy your plan.

You must not hardcode these assumptions into the core:

Bad assumption 1

“Every visit belongs to a client library.”

Wrong.
A visit may belong to:

zero libraries
many libraries
public catalog only
Bad assumption 2

“Every user comes from a client.”

Wrong.
Phase 2 users do not.

Bad assumption 3

“Only admins can create guides.”

Wrong at the architecture level.
That is only a policy for Phase 1.

Bad assumption 4

“All published content is curated.”

Wrong.
Phase 2 breaks that.

Bad assumption 5

“Access is always account/library-based.”

Wrong.
Later you also need:

public access
per-visit purchase
free plays
ad-supported availability

If those assumptions leak into your core database/API logic, then your “one system” claim becomes fake.

The real design principle

You want:

Stable core, variable governance

That is the whole game.

Stable core
users
guides
visits
versions
steps
media
follows
likes
watchlist
playback
notifications
entitlements
Variable governance
who may sign up
who may publish
who may see what
who may buy what
what review is required
what monetization modes are enabled

That is how one system remains one system.

Revised architecture rule set

I would freeze these now:

Rule 1

There is only one product architecture.

Rule 2

Phase 1 is an operating mode of the same system, not a different system.

Rule 3

All major entities must already support Phase 2 openness, even if Phase 1 policies restrict their usage.

Rule 4

Restrictions must live in permissions, workflows, visibility logic, and entitlements—not in the core schema design.

Rule 5

Going from Phase 1 to Phase 2 should mainly require enabling features and relaxing policies, not migrating content or redesigning the data model.

What I would change in our prior framing

Yes, I would tighten the wording.

Instead of saying:

Phase 1 and Phase 2

The more correct internal engineering framing is:

Operating Mode 1 — Curated / Controlled
B2B-heavy
guide onboarding restricted
user access restricted
library-gated
admin-controlled publishing
Operating Mode 2 — Open Marketplace
public signup
self-serve creators
public catalog
mixed monetization
broader recommendation/ranking

That is cleaner and closer to what you actually want.

Hard truth

Your instinct is correct.
But the execution risk is huge.

Because “one system” only works if you are disciplined enough to avoid embedding Phase 1 business logic into:

tables
endpoint assumptions
UI assumptions
admin workflows
indexing rules

Most teams fail exactly there.

The right next move

We should now explicitly define:

STEP 14B — Governance / Feature-Flag / Access Matrix

Meaning:

which features exist in the core
which are enabled in Controlled Mode
which are enabled in Open Mode
what changes by flag/policy only

That will let you verify that this is truly one system and one system only.

ok

Good. This is the step that will make or break your “one system” strategy.

If this matrix is wrong, you will accidentally build Phase 1 logic into the core and you won’t be able to switch cleanly.

STEP 14B — GOVERNANCE / FEATURE FLAG / ACCESS MATRIX (FROZEN v1.0)
Objective

Define:

what is core (always exists)
what is controlled by flags
what differs between:
Operating Mode 1 = Curated (Phase 1)
Operating Mode 2 = Open Marketplace (Phase 2)
14B.1 — GLOBAL PRINCIPLE (LOCK THIS)
Core system = identical in both modes
Only governance, permissions, and visibility change
14B.2 — FEATURE FLAG SYSTEM (MINIMAL BUT POWERFUL)

You do NOT want 100 flags.

You want a small set of high-leverage flags.

Core Flags
ALLOW_PUBLIC_USER_SIGNUP
ALLOW_PUBLIC_GUIDE_SIGNUP
ALLOW_DIRECT_CREATOR_PUBLISH
ENABLE_PUBLIC_CATALOG
REQUIRE_LIBRARY_ACCESS
ENABLE_PAY_PER_VIEW
ENABLE_ADS
ENABLE_GUIDE_DISCOVERY
Optional Later Flags
ENABLE_GUIDE_RANKING
ENABLE_SPONSORED_CONTENT
ENABLE_ADVANCED_RECOMMENDATION
14B.3 — OPERATING MODES (FINAL DEFINITION)
MODE 1 — CURATED (PHASE 1)
ALLOW_PUBLIC_USER_SIGNUP = false
ALLOW_PUBLIC_GUIDE_SIGNUP = false
ALLOW_DIRECT_CREATOR_PUBLISH = false
ENABLE_PUBLIC_CATALOG = limited/false
REQUIRE_LIBRARY_ACCESS = true
ENABLE_PAY_PER_VIEW = false
ENABLE_ADS = limited (only contextual, no push ads)
ENABLE_GUIDE_DISCOVERY = false
MODE 2 — OPEN MARKETPLACE (PHASE 2)
ALLOW_PUBLIC_USER_SIGNUP = true
ALLOW_PUBLIC_GUIDE_SIGNUP = true
ALLOW_DIRECT_CREATOR_PUBLISH = true (with optional moderation)
ENABLE_PUBLIC_CATALOG = true
REQUIRE_LIBRARY_ACCESS = false (fallback to entitlements)
ENABLE_PAY_PER_VIEW = true
ENABLE_ADS = true (within UX constraints)
ENABLE_GUIDE_DISCOVERY = true
14B.4 — FEATURE MATRIX (CRITICAL TABLE)
1. USER ACCESS
Feature	Curated Mode	Open Mode
Public signup	❌	✅
Admin-created accounts	✅	optional
Anonymous browsing	limited	broader
2. GUIDE SYSTEM
Feature	Curated	Open
Guide creation	admin-only	self-serve
Guide activation	manual	automatic/conditional
Guide visibility	limited	full
Follow system	✅	✅
3. VISITS / CONTENT
Feature	Curated	Open
Visit creation	guided	self-serve
Publishing	admin approval	direct or moderated
Visibility	library-gated	public + gated
Versioning	✅	✅
4. DISCOVERY
Feature	Curated	Open
Map/List search	✅	✅
Public catalog	restricted	full
Guide discovery	❌	✅
Ranking	simple	advanced
5. ACCESS CONTROL
Feature	Curated	Open
Library access required	✅	optional
Client credentials	primary	optional
User entitlements	limited	full
6. MONETIZATION
Feature	Curated	Open
B2B packages	✅	optional
Pay-per-view	❌	✅
Ads	minimal	enabled
Promotions	controlled	scalable
7. OFFLINE / TOKEN
Feature	Curated	Open
Token validation	strict	flexible
Expiry logic	fixed window	rolling
Download system	✅	✅
8. NOTIFICATIONS
Feature	Curated	Open
Guide updates	limited	full
Recommendations	limited	full
Ads via notification	❌	controlled
14B.5 — VISIBILITY LOGIC (MOST IMPORTANT PART)

Every visit must resolve visibility through this logic:

IF visit.visibility_mode == public
    → visible to all users (depending on flags)

ELSE IF visit.visibility_mode == library_only
    → visible only if user has access_grant OR entitlement

ELSE IF visit.visibility_mode == unlisted
    → only accessible via direct link or admin
Additional layer
IF REQUIRE_LIBRARY_ACCESS = true
    → even public catalog may be hidden or restricted
14B.6 — ACCESS RESOLUTION ENGINE (CORE FUNCTION)

This is one of your most critical backend functions.

canUserAccessVisit(user, visit):
    IF visit.visibility_mode == public:
        RETURN true

    IF user has active entitlement for visit:
        RETURN true

    IF user has access_grant to a library containing visit:
        RETURN true

    RETURN false
IMPORTANT

Do NOT:

scatter this logic everywhere

👉 Centralize it.

14B.7 — CREATOR WORKFLOW CONTROL
Curated Mode
Create → Draft → Submit → Admin review → Publish
Open Mode
Create → Publish
(or Create → Publish → Post-moderation)
Same tables, same endpoints

Only workflow enforcement changes

14B.8 — SEARCH / DISCOVERY FILTERING

Search results must always be filtered by:

visibility + access + flags
Example

In Curated Mode:

Search returns only:
- visits in accessible libraries

In Open Mode:

Search returns:
- public visits
- + accessible gated visits
14B.9 — UI IMPACT (IMPORTANT)

You must NOT create two UIs.

Instead:

UI adapts to mode
Example — Discover screen

Curated:

smaller catalog
no guide browsing

Open:

full catalog
guide surfaces appear
Example — Creator tools

Curated:

“Submit for review”

Open:

“Publish”
14B.10 — DEPLOYMENT STRATEGY (KEY INSIGHT)

You should NOT deploy:

Phase 1 app
then Phase 2 app

You deploy:

One system
+ configuration profile = CURATED

Later:

Change config → OPEN
14B.11 — WHAT “LIFTING LIMITATIONS” REALLY MEANS

When you go from Phase 1 → Phase 2:

You are NOT:

migrating data
changing schema
rebuilding APIs

You are:

1. Enabling flags
2. Relaxing moderation
3. Expanding visibility
4. Allowing self-service
5. Activating monetization modes
14B.12 — FINAL VALIDATION CHECK (VERY IMPORTANT)

Ask yourself:

Can I:
create a visit without assigning it to a library?
publish content without admin approval?
expose a visit publicly?
allow a user to access without a client account?

If the answer is no at the data/model level,
you already broke the “one system” rule.

14B.13 — HARD TRUTH

Most teams fail here because they:

say “we’ll just add flags later”
but build Phase 1 logic directly into:
queries
UI flows
database constraints

Then Phase 2 becomes:

rewrite disguised as evolution
WHAT IS NOW FULLY LOCKED

You now have:

✅ One system architecture
✅ Two operating modes
✅ Feature flags controlling behavior
✅ Unified data model
✅ Unified API
✅ Unified discovery engine
✅ Unified creator system

NEXT STEP (FINAL STEP)

Now we move to:

STEP 15 — SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE & EXECUTION PLAN

This will define:

frontend (App vs Web vs Admin)
backend services
offline architecture
routing integration
storage (media, packages)
scaling path
what to build FIRST (very important)

This is where we go from design → execution.

If you're ready, we lock how this actually gets built.

let's do it

Good. Now we stop defining what the product is and define how it is built.

This step matters because a lot of otherwise good products die from bad technical sequencing, not bad ideas.

You want:

one system
one codebase strategy
one scalable architecture
one clean transition from Curated Mode to Open Marketplace Mode

That means the architecture must be:

modular
policy-driven
offline-capable
not over-engineered on day one
STEP 15 — SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE & EXECUTION PLAN (FROZEN v1.0)
Outcome

We define:

frontend architecture
backend architecture
storage architecture
offline/download/token flow
routing/search/media responsibilities
scaling path
build order
15.1 — HIGH-LEVEL ARCHITECTURE

You should build one platform with four frontend surfaces and one backend platform.

Frontend surfaces
1. Visitor App

Primary product experience

Used for:

map discovery
playback
offline watchlist
follow / save / activity
2. Visitor Web App

Reduced experience

Used for:

browse content
stream free/public content
install funnel into app
3. Creator / Guide Console

Used for:

create/edit visits
manage drafts
submit/publish
review analytics
4. Admin / Control Console

Used for:

libraries
clients
access grants
moderation
contracts
analytics
platform control
Backend platform

One backend with modular domains:

Auth / Identity
Guides
Visits / Versions / Steps / Media
Discovery / Search
Libraries / Entitlements / Access
Offline / Packages / Tokens
Playback / Activity
Notifications
Admin / Moderation
Routing abstraction

That is the correct structure.

15.2 — FRONTEND STRATEGY
Recommended approach
Visitor App

Use a mobile-first PWA-capable frontend first, with a path to packaging it as an installable mobile app later.

Reason:

faster iteration
shared code with web where appropriate
easier early deployment

But be honest:

advanced offline
stronger media handling
better storage control
push notifications
may eventually push you toward a wrapped/native deployment strategy.

So the smart route is:

Phase-safe frontend approach
build a strong responsive web app / PWA foundation
architect service layers cleanly
keep app-only modules isolated:
offline packages
watchlist downloads
token-secured playback
push notification registration

That way you can later wrap/package without rewriting product logic.

UI separation recommendation

Do not build one giant monolith frontend with every role tangled together.

Split frontend apps logically:

Frontend A — Visitor

Map, discovery, playback

Frontend B — Creator/Admin Backoffice

Creation, moderation, access control

You can still share:

design system
auth layer
API client
core utilities

But the interfaces should not be one tangled UI.

That would become unmaintainable.

15.3 — BACKEND ARCHITECTURE
Recommended pattern

Start with a modular monolith, not microservices.

That is the right answer.

Why:

one product
early-stage complexity
many cross-domain workflows
easier debugging
easier deployment

Microservices now would be ego architecture, not smart architecture.

Suggested backend modules
Auth / Identity
login
signup policies
roles
sessions
Guide Module
profiles
followers
public guide data
Visit Module
visit
versions
steps
media metadata
publish lifecycle
Discovery Module
search
filters
visibility resolution
ranking
Library / Access Module
libraries
clients
grants
entitlements
Offline Module
package manifests
token refresh
package validity
Playback Module
start / heartbeat / complete
resume
activity
Review / Rating Module
stars
comments
moderation hooks
Notification Module
guide updates
resume nudges
system alerts
later offers/promotions
Admin Module
control panels
moderation
status changes
analytics snapshots
Routing Module
route generation abstraction
provider switching
15.4 — DATABASE STRATEGY
Recommended

Use PostgreSQL as the primary relational database.

Why:

strong relational integrity
JSON support where helpful
indexing
extensions for geographic querying if needed
scalable enough for this product

This is the right long-term core.

Geographic support

Because your product is map-first and route-based, you should strongly consider a geospatial-capable setup path.

The sane direction is:

PostgreSQL
with geospatial capability later/early where useful

You do not need to overcomplicate this on day one, but you should not design as if location were just plain text.

15.5 — MEDIA STORAGE STRATEGY

You need object storage, not database blobs.

Store in object storage:
audio files
images
packaged media artifacts
preview media
later exported visit bundles
Store in database:
metadata
URLs / keys
hashes
package manifests

That is non-negotiable.

Do not put audio/image payloads into your relational DB.

15.6 — OFFLINE PACKAGE ARCHITECTURE

This is one of your most important differentiators.

Package concept

Each downloadable visit is a packaged bundle containing:

visit version metadata
route geometry
step data
required audio
required images
manifest
encrypted package layer
local validity token binding
Correct packaging flow
1. User taps Add to Watchlist
2. Backend authorizes package creation
3. Backend returns package manifest + token material
4. App downloads assets
5. App stores encrypted local package
6. App records package state
7. Playback checks local token validity before opening

That is the right model.

Important rule

Do not generate the full package at playback time every time.

You need:

package manifest strategy
resumable asset fetch
local package lifecycle state
15.7 — TOKEN / SECURITY ARCHITECTURE

Be realistic.

You can:

restrict
encrypt
validate
deter

You cannot create perfect anti-extraction.

So architect for:

controlled access
revocation
expiry
friction against casual theft

Not fantasy DRM.

Security layers
Layer 1 — Server entitlement

Can this user access this visit?

Layer 2 — Offline token

Can this device/session open the local package?

Layer 3 — Encrypted local assets

Can package contents be casually extracted?

That is enough for a strong v1/v2 architecture.

15.8 — SEARCH / DISCOVERY ARCHITECTURE

Search is central to the product.

Recommended approach

Use one unified discovery endpoint and one ranking pipeline.

Do not split map search and list search into separate logic.

You already fixed that conceptually. Good.

Early implementation

You can start with database-backed filtered search plus ranking logic.

That is acceptable early if your scale is manageable.

Later scaling

When content volume grows, you may move to:

a dedicated indexing/search layer
precomputed ranking/materialized results
recommendation services

But not now.

Do not prematurely build a search empire.

15.9 — ROUTING ARCHITECTURE

You already chose the right direction:

frontend map UI
backend routing abstraction
provider-backed route generation

That must remain isolated behind your own API.

Correct structure

Creator UI → /api/routing/generate → provider adapter → geometry result

This is smart because later you can:

swap provider
add caching
add fallback
add route QA logic

without rewriting the creator UI.

15.10 — NOTIFICATION ARCHITECTURE

Keep it event-driven internally.

Sources of notification events:
guide published visit
token nearing expiry
download completed
user left visit unfinished
client/library access changed
later: promotion match
Pipeline

Domain event → notification policy → queue → delivery → status tracking

Do not send notifications directly from random controller code.
That becomes chaos fast.

15.11 — ANALYTICS ARCHITECTURE

You do not need a giant BI system now.

But you do need event capture.

Core events to track
search performed
marker opened
preview opened
play started
step entered
visit completed
visit liked
visit added to watchlist
guide followed
review submitted

That gives you enough to measure the health of the product.

15.12 — ROLE / PERMISSION ARCHITECTURE

You want one system, two modes.

So permissions must be policy-driven.

Roles
visitor
guide
content_admin
client_admin
super_admin
Additional governance

Mode flags + per-entity status

Because role alone is not enough.

Example:
a guide may exist but still be:

pending
suspended
curated-only

So do not confuse role with operational status.

15.13 — DEPLOYMENT STRATEGY
Recommended early deployment shape
Frontend hosting

Static/app hosting for visitor web and backoffice frontends

Backend hosting

One API application

Database

Managed PostgreSQL

Object storage

Managed object storage/CDN-backed media delivery

This is the sane early shape.

Why this is right
fast deployment
controlled operational complexity
good enough scale
easy to evolve
15.14 — SCALING STRATEGY

You do not need to solve global scale today. You need a clean path.

Stage 1

Modular monolith + relational DB + object storage

Stage 2

Add:

caching
search indexing
background workers
async packaging jobs
notification queues
Stage 3

Split only the parts under real pressure, such as:

search/recommendation
packaging pipeline
media/transcoding
notification delivery

Do not split earlier.

15.15 — BACKGROUND JOBS YOU WILL NEED

Even in early versions, some work should not happen inline.

Job types
media processing
route generation caching
offline package preparation
token refresh housekeeping
auto-delete stale packages
notification dispatch
analytics rollups

That means you need a job/worker layer eventually, even if the core stays monolithic.

15.16 — EXECUTION PRIORITIES (MOST IMPORTANT PART)

This is where people usually lose the plot.

You have defined a rich platform. You cannot build everything at once without creating a mess.

So here is the rational build order.

BUILD ORDER — WAVE 1 (ABSOLUTE CORE)
1. Identity + roles

Need this first.

2. Guide profiles

Core public identity.

3. Visits + versions + steps

Core content model.

4. Creator wizard

But only enough to:

create steps
place them on map
add audio/images
save draft
5. Route generation

With one main route profile.

6. Discovery engine

Map + list + unified search.

7. Visit detail page + player

Core user experience.

8. Playback/activity tracking

Resume and completion.

That is the minimum viable backbone.

BUILD ORDER — WAVE 2 (RETENTION CORE)
9. Likes
10. Guide follows
11. Notifications
12. Activity tab
13. Watchlist/download structure (initial)

Not full DRM complexity, but real package logic.

BUILD ORDER — WAVE 3 (PHASE 1 BUSINESS LAYER)
14. Libraries
15. Clients
16. Access grants
17. Controlled visibility
18. Admin moderation workflow
19. Contract-aware guide control

This is where Curated Mode becomes operationally strong.

BUILD ORDER — WAVE 4 (OFFLINE CONTROL HARDENING)
20. Full offline token logic
21. Expiry/refresh rules
22. Encrypted local package improvements
23. Storage management UI
BUILD ORDER — WAVE 5 (OPEN MODE EXPANSION)
24. Public signup
25. Self-serve guide creation
26. Direct publish / lighter moderation
27. Public catalog expansion
28. Pay-per-view
29. Guide discovery surfaces
30. Recommendation upgrades

That is the clean release path.

15.17 — WHAT NOT TO BUILD FIRST

This matters just as much.

Do not build first:

aggressive recommendation engine
advanced ad system
live online guiding
IRL booking
multi-device sync listening
advanced gamification
full VR flow

Those are expansion layers, not launch spine.

15.18 — ARCHITECTURAL NON-NEGOTIABLES

Freeze these.

Rule 1

One backend platform, modular monolith first.

Rule 2

One unified data model supporting both operating modes.

Rule 3

One unified discovery engine.

Rule 4

Object storage for media, relational DB for metadata.

Rule 5

Offline package/token system as a layered access mechanism, not the primary source of truth.

Rule 6

Feature flags and governance rules control Curated vs Open mode.

Rule 7

Build order must follow user value first, governance second, expansion third.

Hard truth

You are trying to build something ambitious but coherent. That is good.

The danger is not that the idea is too broad.
The danger is that you build too many systems inside the system too early:

DRM system
ad system
recommendation system
routing engine
creator suite
B2B distribution layer
consumer marketplace

If you do that all at once, you will get a heavy, brittle mess.

So the real discipline is:

build one core
add one layer at a time
keep governance separate from architecture
What is now complete

At this point, the conceptual backbone is complete:

product identity
user experience
discovery
playback
guide system
save/watchlist/token logic
notifications
monetization boundaries
admin/control layer
creator experience
data model
governance model
system architecture
execution order

That is enough to write a real master document.

Recommended next move

The strongest next step is to turn this into one of these, in order of usefulness:

a frozen master document
a screen-by-screen frontend architecture
a database schema draft
a backend routes/modules implementation plan

The most logical next move is the frozen master document, because you now have enough settled decisions to write it properly.

ok, let's do that, keep your list in mind to keep diving in that specific order

Good. We now freeze the backbone.

And to be clear: this is no longer brainstorming. This is the reference version of the module as currently defined. Anything that contradicts this later should be treated as a deliberate change, not casual drift.

After this, the order stays:

Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Let’s Get Out! — Master Document
Frozen Backbone v1.0
1. Product identity

Let’s Get Out! is a virtual guiding platform centered primarily on route-based guided visits consumed through a map-first, audio-first experience.

Its long-term ambition is to become a global platform for guided tourism content:

in its Curated operating mode, it behaves like a premium, professionally controlled library
in its Open Marketplace operating mode, it behaves like a broader creator platform

The product is not a generic tourism app.
It is a guided experience platform.

Its core value is:

discover → load → follow a guided visit
2. One system, not two

There is only one platform architecture.

There are not:

one Phase 1 system
one Phase 2 system

Instead, there is:

One core system
+ operating mode controls
+ visibility rules
+ permission rules
+ workflow gates
Operating Mode 1 — Curated

Used for launch.

Characteristics:

centrally controlled guide onboarding
centrally controlled visitor/client access
premium curated content
B2B library packaging
restricted publishing workflow
controlled content visibility
Operating Mode 2 — Open Marketplace

Used later by lifting restrictions.

Characteristics:

public visitor signup
self-serve guide signup
public catalog expansion
direct or lightly moderated publishing
mixed monetization
broader guide discovery

The transition from Curated to Open Marketplace must be achieved by:

changing governance
enabling features
relaxing restrictions

It must not require:

schema redesign
data migration as a core dependency
rebuilding discovery logic
rebuilding creator flows
3. Product promise

From the visitor’s perspective, the module promises:

access to a broad range of guided visits
a simple and immersive way to discover places
reliable, route-based guided experiences
strong guide identity and content personality
the ability to use visits on site, at home, or later

From the guide’s perspective, the module promises:

a structured publishing environment
visibility through discovery and following
a persistent public profile
long-term opportunity to build reputation and audience
4. Primary product center of gravity

The dominant product experience is:

map-first discovery of route-based visits

The dominant consumption mode is:

audio-first, on-site guidance

The product also supports:

at-home consultation
post-visit exploration
local discovery by nearby residents

But those are secondary to the core on-site guided use case.

5. Primary users
Primary launch user

Individual visitor

Secondary launch user

Guide / content creator

Additional system roles
super admin
content admin
client admin
later: self-serve public guide and broader consumer user base
6. Canonical content object

The canonical content object is a route-based visit.

A visit is composed of:

Visit
 ├ metadata
 ├ route
 ├ steps
 ├ narration
 ├ step media
 ├ guide identity
 ├ access / visibility rules
A visit is not primarily:
a generic article
a pure video object
a social post
a live-booking product

Those may exist later, but they are not the canonical object.

7. Visit structure

Each visit contains:

Global metadata
title
short description
long description
hero media
main language
themes
main route profile
estimated duration
total distance
start area
end area
step count
guide reference
rating summary
Route data
ordered checkpoints
generated route geometry
routing provider reference
route generation timestamp
Steps

Each step includes:

step index
title
optional description
GPS coordinates
trigger radius
duration
location label
audio narration
optional images
optional text
optional video link
transport-related metadata
emergency-service metadata
accessibility markers

Your current creator wizard already reflects a large part of this route-and-step model, including GPS, audio, images, step ordering, transport metadata, and emergency/access fields.

8. Visit duration rules
Total visit duration

Maximum: 10 hours

Total playable audio/video content

Maximum: 3 hours

These constraints prevent abuse and maintain a coherent guided-experience format.

9. Mobility and route logic

The platform supports multi-modal visits, but each visit must have one main route computation profile in its early versions.

Main route profiles
walking
cycling
driving

Other transport indicators such as:

metro
tram
bus
train
boat

must be treated as metadata or contextual guidance, not as primary auto-routing profiles in v1.

This distinction is critical.
If route computation and transport metadata are mixed, route logic becomes incoherent.

10. Route generation

The creator experience must support automatic route generation between ordered checkpoints.

Recommended architecture:

Leaflet map UI
+ backend route-generation endpoint
+ routing provider abstraction

Recommended initial provider direction:

backend-controlled route generation via a routing provider
persisted route geometry
regeneration when steps/order/profile change

The route must be:

generated automatically
visible to the creator
reviewable before publish
stored with the visit version
11. Discovery model

Discovery is built around a single unified engine.

Main discovery surfaces
Map view
List view
Search behavior

Search is:

global
persistent
shared between Map and List

The map and list are not separate search systems.
They are two views of the same dataset.

Search inputs supported
locations
themes
guide names
visit names
mixed search intent
Default discovery behavior

When no search query exists:

map shows the top results based on visibility, popularity, and/or rating rules
Location context behavior

The app defaults to Near Me mode when appropriate.
Re-centering should happen only when the user explicitly selects a location result, not merely while typing.

12. Discover screen

The Discover screen is the primary entry point.

Default mode

Map view

Core components
search bar
map
list toggle
filter control
current-location logic
dynamic visit markers
preview card
Marker interaction

Tapping a marker opens a compact preview card, not a full page.

This is intentional:

it enables quick return to map
it forces a strong preview-card design
it supports rapid browsing
13. Preview card

The preview card is a critical conversion component.

It must display:

hero image
visit title
guide photo
guide name
guide rating
visit rating
duration
distance
main themes
transport icons
emergency-proximity icons
Play CTA
Like CTA
open-details action

The preview card must prioritize Play as the dominant action.

14. Visit detail page

The full visit page answers one question:

Do I want to do this visit now?

It includes:

hero media
guide block
duration / distance / steps / transport
themes
description
mini route map
step overview
reviews preview
Like action
Watchlist action (app only)
Play action

The guide block must be highly visible, not buried.

15. Guide identity and public profile

Guide identity is a first-class product layer, not background metadata.

A guide profile includes:

photo
display name
rating
followers
bio
themes
languages
regions covered
published visits
follow button

The dominant function of the guide profile is:

helping users discover more visits by the same guide

Secondarily, it provides:

trust
credibility
loyalty and retention

Guide profiles are central to the long-term platform model.

16. Following guides

Visitors must be able to follow guides.

This is a core retention mechanism.

Following enables:

notification of new visits
stronger guide visibility in saved areas
recommendation boosts for followed guides
repeat discovery loops

The system must visibly surface guide identity in:

preview cards
list cards
visit pages
completion prompts
saved/followed sections
17. Visitor navigation model

The standalone visitor app uses the following top-level navigation:

Discover | Saved | Activity | Profile
Discover

Map-first exploration

Saved

Retention layer

Activity

Continuity layer

Profile

Settings and control

A separate top-level Guides tab is deliberately not used in the first architecture because the product remains primarily route-led and map-led.

18. Saved, liked, and watchlist logic

These must remain distinct.

Like

A lightweight preference signal.

Effects:

stored in liked visits
influences ranking/recommendations
no download
no token
no offline implication
Watchlist

A heavier offline-intent action.

Effects:

stored in watchlist
triggers download
creates local secured package
creates/uses token logic
available only in the app, not the web version
Activity

Automatic behavior log:

in progress
recent
completed

These must not be merged.

19. Download and token system

The app supports offline usage via downloadable visit packages.

App behavior
Watchlist action triggers package preparation/download
package includes essential visit assets
package is stored locally with token-gated usage
Web behavior
no watchlist download
no offline use
streaming only
restricted/free-access experience only
Token logic

Offline access is governed by:

entitlement/access rights at server level
local offline token at device/package level
Curated mode token model
validity tied to controlled access window
refresh by online checks according to policy
Open mode token model
rolling validity windows possible
refreshed on use according to policy
Auto-delete rule

A downloaded visit unused for too long may be automatically deleted from the device according to inactivity policy.

The user-facing experience must stay simple:

valid
expired
refresh required
remove/redownload

Do not expose internal access complexity to users.

20. Playback philosophy

Playback is:

map-background
bottom-player-based
GPS-aware
audio-first
flexible rather than rigid
Core layout
map remains visible during playback
route line visible
current GPS visible
current step visible
player anchored at bottom
Player states
compact
expanded
Controls
play/pause
previous
next
step progress
expand/collapse
Step media behavior

Only media relevant to the current step should be emphasized.

21. Start and progression logic
Start logic

When the user presses Play:

if near the start point, playback starts
if not near the start point, the app asks for confirmation

Example:

start anyway
guide me to the start
cancel
Progression logic

Default:

autoplay enabled

Optional:

manual mode
Step progression
GPS entering next step radius triggers progression
later-step detection can offer forward skipping
skipping works only forward
no automatic backward rewind logic
22. Map behavior during playback

The map remains the visual background.

It should show:

current user location
current route segment
visited steps
current step
future steps
current-step media icons

Map orientation should be switchable:

north-up
direction-up

The interface must remain usable while moving.
This matters especially for:

cycling
driving
mixed-mobility use cases
23. Audio and media behavior

Audio narration is the primary medium.

Rules
autoplay enabled by default
manual playback possible
media must not unexpectedly interrupt narration
video-with-sound should prompt before audio conflict

Media overlays may include:

images
text
video links
quizzes
future playful or branching mechanics

These are allowed, but narration remains the backbone.

24. Group listening

Group listening is desirable but should be staged.

Early support
one device shared by multiple listeners
Later support
synchronized multi-device playback sessions

This feature is valuable but should not block launch of the core product.

25. Completion and ratings

At visit completion, the user should be invited to:

rate the visit
follow the guide
explore more by the same guide
discover nearby visits
Rating model

Simple star rating

This is sufficient for the early product and discovery feedback loop.

26. Notifications

Notification policy must be balanced, not aggressive.

Valid notification families
guide updates
contextual recommendations
system alerts
activity nudges
later: contextual local offers
User control

Users must be able to manage categories in settings.

Principle

Notifications must feel useful and relevant, not spam-like.

27. Monetization boundaries

Promotions and offers may exist, but the guided experience is sacred.

Allowed monetization surfaces
before visit start
after visit completion
passive map markers
visit page offer sections
carefully controlled notifications
Forbidden / strongly rejected
ads interrupting narration
forced popups mid-step
fake content disguised as guide narration
intrusive playback disruption

The product may contain monetization, but not at the cost of immersion.

28. Creator experience

The creator flow must be experience-building, not just form-filling.

Creator stages
core definition
route building
step content
experience review
publish / submit for review
Core principles
route and step structure must stay visually clear
creators must be able to preview the experience
step map sync is mandatory
route generation must be integrated
creator workflow must be good enough to produce high-quality content repeatedly
Publishing difference by operating mode

Curated:

submit for review

Open Marketplace:

publish directly or under lighter moderation

Same system, different governance.

29. Versioning

Published visits must be versioned.

This is non-negotiable.

Why:

editing must not break current users
offline packages must stay stable
review workflow requires draft/published separation

The correct model is:

Visit = persistent public object
VisitVersion = publishable content snapshot
30. Libraries and access

Libraries are the business backbone of Curated mode.

A library is a collection of visits grouped by:

geography
theme
client-specific packaging
curated collection logic
Curated mode

Libraries are sold/assigned through controlled access grants.

Open Marketplace mode

Libraries may still exist, but public and entitlement-based access also becomes available.

The visit model must support:

public visibility
library-only visibility
unlisted visibility

Libraries must not be hardcoded as the only way content exists.

31. Access model

The system must support multiple access types under one architecture.

Examples
client/library access grant
per-user entitlement
public/free access
later: pay-per-view or bundle access

The access model must remain centralized and resolvable through one coherent policy layer.

Do not scatter access rules across unrelated components.

32. Governance and operating modes

The platform uses one core system with variable governance.

Stable core
users
guide profiles
visits
versions
steps
media
libraries
entitlements
follows
likes
watchlist
playback
notifications
Variable governance
who may sign up
who may become a guide
who may publish directly
what is publicly discoverable
what requires library access
what monetization modes are enabled
what moderation is required

This is the foundation of the “one system” strategy.

33. Admin and control layer

The admin layer must control:

guide activation/suspension
visit review and moderation
library creation and assignment
client creation
access grant creation and revocation
content activation/deactivation
visibility control
contract-awareness in curated mode
analytics

This layer is central to the operating model, especially in Curated mode.

34. Data-model principles

The core entities include:

users
guide profiles
visits
visit versions
visit steps
step media
libraries
library items
clients
access grants
user entitlements
likes
watchlist items
follows
offline packages
offline tokens
playback sessions
reviews
notifications
partner offers
moderation records
Principles
use one unified visit model
version published content
separate offline token logic from server entitlements
keep guide identity first-class
avoid burying everything permanently inside JSON fields
keep routing provider behind your own abstraction
35. System architecture
Frontend surfaces
visitor app
visitor web app
creator/guide console
admin/control console
Backend architecture

One modular monolith first, not microservices.

Storage
relational DB for metadata
object storage for media and packages
Search/discovery

One unified discovery engine, not separate logic for map/list

Offline

Package-based, token-gated, layered access control

Routing

Backend abstraction over routing provider(s)

Analytics

Event capture on critical user and creator actions

36. Execution order
Wave 1 — Core product
identity and roles
guide profiles
visits / versions / steps
creator wizard basics
route generation
discovery engine
visit page + player
playback/activity tracking
Wave 2 — Retention
likes
follows
notifications
activity tab
initial watchlist/download structure
Wave 3 — Curated business layer
libraries
clients
access grants
controlled visibility
moderation workflow
contract-aware guide control
Wave 4 — Offline hardening
full token logic
expiry rules
encrypted local-package refinement
storage management UI
Wave 5 — Open Marketplace expansion
public signup
self-serve guide onboarding
lighter/direct publish
public catalog expansion
pay-per-view
guide discovery surfaces
recommendation upgrades

This order must be respected if you want execution discipline.

37. What is explicitly not core for launch

The following are not part of the initial core spine:

live online guiding operations
IRL booking marketplace
advanced gamification
full VR-first product logic
multi-device sync listening as launch-critical
aggressive ad systems
overbuilt recommendation engines

These are later expansion layers.

38. Frozen strategic principles
Principle 1

There is one system and one system only.

Principle 2

Curated mode is a restricted operating mode of the same platform.

Principle 3

Open Marketplace mode must be achievable mainly by:

enabling features
relaxing restrictions
expanding visibility
changing governance
Principle 4

The product is primarily:

map-first
route-based
audio-first
guide-visible
Principle 5

The creator layer and the guide-following layer are not optional add-ons.
They are part of the platform’s long-term moat.

Principle 6

The guided experience must remain protected from sloppy monetization or intrusive interruption.

This freezes the backbone.

Next comes the screen-by-screen frontend architecture, and I will keep the order exactly as agreed.

great, let's do that

Good. Now we turn the backbone into an actual interface system.

This is where vague product thinking usually gets exposed. A lot of ideas that sound coherent collapse once every screen, state, and transition has to be specified.

We will do this properly.

Step 16 — Screen-by-Screen Frontend Architecture
Frozen Frontend Specification v1.0
Objective

Define the full frontend screen map for Let’s Get Out!, with:

screen families
internal sections
navigation flows
popups / overlays / drawers
shared UI patterns
role separation

We will cover, in order:

Visitor frontend
Creator frontend
Admin frontend

The visitor side comes first because it is the product face and the creator/admin sides must support it, not distort it.

Part I — Visitor Frontend Architecture
1. Visitor app shell

The standalone visitor app uses a persistent shell composed of:

Fixed elements
top search/header zone where relevant
main content zone
bottom navigation bar
Bottom navigation
Discover | Saved | Activity | Profile
Shared behavior
consistent map/list state persistence
slide-up panels over map
bottom sheets for actions/filters
strong back-navigation continuity
app-first behavior, with web as reduced mode
2. Visitor screen map
2.1 Discover — Map (default home)

This is the default landing screen.

Purpose

Primary acquisition and exploration surface.

Main layout
top search bar
near me toggle / location mode indicator
map canvas
visible visit markers
floating controls
bottom map/list toggle zone
preview card overlay when marker selected
Main elements
Header/search zone
global search field
optional inline location chip
filter button
maybe current mode chip: Near me / Searching in Paris
Map body
user position marker
visit markers
later clustering
optional passive partner markers
no route shown until a visit is selected
Floating controls
recenter on me
maybe map orientation toggle later
maybe search this area after pan
Bottom controls
map/list toggle
maybe filter shortcut
maybe active filter chips
Marker behavior

Tap marker → open compact preview card.

Exit paths
bottom nav to Saved / Activity / Profile
switch to Discover List
open visit preview/details
open filter bottom sheet
2.2 Discover — List

Same dataset as Map. Different visualization.

Purpose

Card browsing and comparison.

Main layout
same persistent search bar/state
same filter state
result count / sort hint
vertical card list
Card structure

Each card should show:

thumbnail / hero
title
guide photo
guide name
guide rating
visit rating
duration
distance
themes
transport icons
like button
maybe watchlist shortcut in app
Interaction

Tap card → same preview behavior logic as map marker selection, except visually it may open:

compact inline expandable card
or
full preview sheet

Recommended:

tapping card opens compact preview sheet consistent with map marker behavior
Exit paths
switch back to Map with preserved query/filter state
open details
play
like
add to watchlist
2.3 Filters bottom sheet

This is not a separate full page. It is a system overlay.

Purpose

Refine current discovery dataset.

Opens from
filter icon in Discover
Content
themes
duration range
distance range
rating threshold
transport mode
maybe language later
Behavior
applied instantly or with Apply CTA
state persists across Map/List
active filters displayed as chips after close
Close behavior
swipe down
close icon
apply and return
2.4 Search suggestions dropdown

Also not a standalone page, but a key frontend state.

Trigger

Typing into search bar.

Content sections
locations
visits/themes
guides
Behavior
selecting location recenters and changes location mode
selecting guide applies search and guide-oriented results
selecting visit/theme filters current dataset
no blocking popup
Important

This must feel fast and unobtrusive.

2.5 Visit preview card / preview sheet

This is the most important conversion surface.

Opens from
map marker tap
list card tap
maybe recommendation card tap
Form

Bottom sheet / preview card over map.

Core content
hero image
title
guide photo, name, rating
visit rating
duration
distance
themes
transport icons
emergency icons
big Play CTA
Like
Open details
Add to Watchlist in app
Behavior
tap outside closes
swipe up expands to full visit page
play begins access flow
state should be lightweight and fast
2.6 Full visit page
Purpose

Decision page before starting / saving / downloading.

Opens from
preview card expand
guide profile visit selection
Saved / Activity
notifications
direct deep link
Main sections
Hero section
hero image/video
title
maybe subtle gradient overlay
Guide block
photo
name
guide rating
follow button
quick trust signals
Core facts row
duration
distance
steps
transport mode
start/end area
Themes
chips
Description
short then expandable full description
Route preview map
route line
start marker
end marker
Step overview
ordered steps
maybe thumbnails/icons
no overload
Reviews preview
star average
maybe top short reviews later
Action area
Play
Like
Add to Watchlist
Share
Important UX rule

Play remains dominant.

2.7 Visit playback screen

This is the core experience screen.

Purpose

Consume the guided visit.

Layout
full map background
route line visible
step markers
current position marker
current-step media icons
bottom player panel
Main states
Compact player
play/pause
previous
next
step title
expand handle
Expanded player
step title
step number / progress
step description
audio progress
previous / pause / next
replay step
media actions
manual/autoplay toggle access
back to map
In-map behavior
current segment highlighted
visited vs current vs future steps visually distinct
user position highlighted
current-step media icons emphasized
Playback states
ready
playing
paused
manual mode
GPS weak signal
step detected
skip-ahead prompt
visit completed
2.8 Playback popups / overlays

These are system overlays tied to playback.

Required popups
Not at start

“You are not near the starting point. Start anyway?”

Actions:

start anyway
guide me to the start
cancel
Later step reached

“You are near Step X. Skip ahead?”

Actions:

skip ahead
stay on current step
Token expired

“This visit is no longer available offline. Reconnect to refresh access.”

Weak GPS signal

“Location accuracy is low. Manual playback may work better here.”

Safety warning

For driving/cycling modes before playback begins.

Media conflict

If opening video with sound while narration is playing.

2.9 Media overlays during playback
Types
image lightbox
text panel
video modal
quiz card
Behavior
should not clutter map when closed
should not aggressively interrupt narration
should feel secondary to audio flow
2.10 Completion screen / completion sheet
Trigger

Visit completed.

Content
success/completion message
guide identity
maybe time/distance summary
rate visit
follow guide
more by this guide
nearby visits
Strategic role

This is one of the strongest retention surfaces in the product.

2.11 Guide profile page
Purpose

Convert one good visit into long-term guide loyalty.

Layout
Header
large photo
name
rating
follower count
follow button
Bio
compact by default
Specialization block
main themes
languages
regions/cities covered
Main content area
visits by this guide
Optional later sections
featured collections
guide highlights
reviews of guide identity
Rule

The visits list is the dominant content block.

2.12 Saved hub

Top-level tab.

Purpose

Keep user-curated objects separate from activity logs.

Internal tabs
Liked | Watchlist | Guides
Default tab

Liked

2.13 Saved — Liked
Content
liked visits
quick access cards
like removal
play/details shortcut
Role

Soft preference memory and discovery reinforcement.

2.14 Saved — Watchlist
Content
downloaded / downloading / expired items
guide identity
download status
last used
quick actions: play, redownload, remove
Extra controls
storage usage summary
manage storage
maybe sort by recent / size / expiry

This screen is important because your offline model is stronger than a typical tourism app.

2.15 Saved — Guides
Content
followed guides
photo/name/rating
new content badge if relevant
tap to profile
unfollow action
Role

Retention and creator loyalty surface.

2.16 Activity hub

Top-level tab.

Purpose

Show actual usage continuity, not saved intent.

Internal tabs
In Progress | Recent | Completed
2.17 Activity — In Progress
Content
current visit
last step reached
progress percent
resume CTA
restart or choose-step options if needed
Rule

Resume must be one-tap.

2.18 Activity — Recent
Content
recently opened/played visits
timestamps
quick play/details
2.19 Activity — Completed
Content
completed visits
rating submitted or missing
revisit option
maybe more-by-guide shortcut
2.20 Notifications center
Purpose

A controlled inbox, not spam.

Entry points
bell icon in header/profile
push notifications deep link here
Categories mixed in list
guide published new visit
recommendation
token/storage alert
resume visit
client/library access change
contextual promo later
Actions
open visit
open guide
mark read
dismiss
2.21 Profile / Settings

Top-level tab.

Purpose

User control area.

Main sections
Account
profile identity
email/login info
language
logout
Playback preferences
autoplay default
map orientation default
maybe safety mode
Notification settings
guide updates
recommendations
system alerts
nearby suggestions
Storage / downloads
maybe shortcut to watchlist storage management
Accessibility / app behavior later
text size
maybe simplified controls
2.22 Web-only reduced states

The visitor web app is not a separate architecture. It is a reduced operating surface.

Main restrictions
no watchlist download
no offline package behavior
limited content access
reduced or no app-only controls
Web UX goal
consult
browse
sample
convert to app install/use
Part II — Creator Frontend Architecture

Now the creator side.

This must not just be “forms.” It must be a workflow.

3. Creator shell
Main navigation

Recommended:

My Visits | Create | Analytics | Profile

In curated mode, some elements may be muted or controlled, but the structure stays one system.

3.1 Creator dashboard — My Visits
Purpose

Main operating screen for guides.

Sections
drafts
under review
published
inactive
Card contents
title
status
last edited
route summary
quick edit
analytics snapshot
duplicate later maybe
3.2 Create / Edit visit — Stage 1: Core definition
Purpose

Fast first step.

Fields
title
short description
themes/tags
language
main route profile
estimated duration mode
UX rule

Do not overload here.

3.3 Create / Edit visit — Stage 2: Route building

This is one of the most important creator screens.

Layout
map dominant
step list/timeline panel
route controls
Main actions
add step by map
add step by GPS
add step by search
reorder steps
generate route
regenerate route
change route profile
Required visual behavior

Selecting a step highlights it:

on map
in sequence list

Without this, creator orientation collapses.

3.4 Create / Edit visit — Stage 3: Step content
Purpose

Build each checkpoint as an experience.

Step editor contents
title
audio upload/record
description
images
video link
trigger radius
location label
accessibility metadata
transport metadata
emergency metadata
Important addition

Preview this step.

3.5 Create / Edit visit — Stage 4: Experience review
Purpose

Let creator evaluate the visit as an experience, not as a form submission.

Sections
route overview
step sequence summary
estimated total duration
missing content warnings
simulation preview
Core function

Simulated playback mode

This should help creator catch:

pacing issues
route oddities
missing narration
excessive step length
3.6 Create / Edit visit — Stage 5: Publish / submit
Curated mode

CTA:

Submit for review
Open mode

CTA:

Publish
Validation checks
minimum steps
required content completeness
route generated
no major broken fields
3.7 Creator analytics screen
Purpose

Show creator outcome loop.

Metrics
plays
completion rate
average rating
followers gained
top visits

Keep it useful, not bloated.

3.8 Creator profile editing
Content
display photo
display name
bio
languages
themes
regions covered

This controls the public guide profile.

Part III — Admin / Control Frontend Architecture

This is where Curated mode actually becomes operational.

4. Admin shell

Recommended navigation:

Overview | Guides | Visits | Libraries | Clients | Access | Moderation | Analytics | Settings

Not all sections need equal prominence at first, but the architecture should support them.

4.1 Admin overview
Purpose

Global operational snapshot.

Widgets
active guides
visits pending review
active libraries
current grants
recent alerts
usage trends
4.2 Admin — Guides
Purpose

Control creator lifecycle.

Main capabilities
create guide
activate/suspend guide
review guide profile
contract status visibility
open guide profile / content list
4.3 Admin — Visits
Purpose

Manage content objects.

Capabilities
browse all visits
filter by status
deactivate/reactivate
inspect versions
open linked guide
inspect library memberships
4.4 Admin — Moderation / Review queue
Purpose

Handle curated publishing workflow.

Queue contents
visit version submitted
creator
title
submitted date
review status
Actions
approve
reject
request changes

This should open a review detail page, not just inline buttons.

4.5 Admin — Review detail page
Contents
visit summary
route preview
step overview
media review
guide info
flags/issues
decision notes box
Actions
approve
reject
request changes
4.6 Admin — Libraries
Purpose

Core Curated mode business control.

Main list
library name
type
status
number of visits
visibility
Actions
create library
edit library
add/remove visits
activate/deactivate
4.7 Admin — Library detail page
Contents
library metadata
included visits
sub-grouping or categorization later
linked clients/access grants

This page is important because library = product in Curated mode.

4.8 Admin — Clients
Purpose

Manage B2B entities.

Main list
client name
type
status
active grants
validity windows
Actions
create
edit
deactivate
4.9 Admin — Access grants
Purpose

Control real access envelopes.

List contents
client
library
valid from / until
concurrent session limit
status
Actions
create
activate
deactivate
extend
revoke
4.10 Admin — Analytics
Purpose

Operational and commercial visibility.

Sections
top visits
top guides
usage by client
completion rates
growth trends

Keep this decision-oriented, not decorative.

4.11 Admin — Settings / governance
Purpose

Control operating-mode behavior.

Candidate areas
public signup on/off
public guide signup on/off
direct publish on/off
public catalog visibility rules
monetization mode enablement
notification policy caps

This is where your one-system / two-operating-modes logic becomes visible in frontend governance.

Part IV — Shared frontend patterns

These patterns must stay consistent across surfaces.

5. Shared component system
Core components
cards
bottom sheets
modals
map overlays
chips
pill selectors
status badges
top bars
bottom navigation
media lightboxes
action drawers

Consistency matters because you explicitly want all platform modules to share a common DNA.

5.1 Status badges

Used across creator/admin systems.

Examples:

Draft
Under review
Published
Inactive
Downloading
Ready
Expired

These should be consistent visually across the whole platform.

5.2 Bottom sheet logic

Used in visitor experience for:

preview cards
filters
maybe step media text
completion surface

This should become a strong shared pattern.

5.3 Map as primary canvas

Map is not a decorative element.
It is a primary interaction canvas in the visitor app and a major creation canvas in creator flow.

That means:

map overlays must be disciplined
marker states must be clear
route rendering must be visually coherent
controls must not clutter the map
Part V — Cross-screen navigation flows

Now the key dynamic flows.

6. Visitor flow: discovery to playback
Discover Map/List
→ Preview Card
→ Visit Detail
→ Play
→ Playback
→ Completion
→ Follow / More by Guide / Nearby Visits
6.1 Visitor flow: guide retention loop
Visit Detail / Completion
→ Guide Profile
→ Follow
→ Notification
→ New Visit
→ Back to Discover / Visit Detail
6.2 Visitor flow: offline loop
Visit Detail
→ Add to Watchlist
→ Download
→ Watchlist
→ Offline Playback
→ Activity
6.3 Creator flow
My Visits
→ Create/Edit
→ Core Definition
→ Route Building
→ Step Content
→ Experience Review
→ Submit/Publish
6.4 Admin flow
Review Queue
→ Review Detail
→ Approve / Reject / Request Changes
→ Visit status updated
→ Library assignment / visibility control
Part VI — Critical frontend principles
Principle 1

Visitor frontend must remain visually simple despite complex logic underneath.

Principle 2

Guide identity must remain visible across discovery, visit detail, and retention surfaces.

Principle 3

Map is a primary interface layer, not a background decoration.

Principle 4

Playback flow must stay interruption-light.

Principle 5

Creator flow must feel like building an experience, not filling a spreadsheet.

Principle 6

Admin flow must support control without forcing separate architecture from the rest of the system.

Part VII — What this frontend architecture now locks

This freezes:

the visitor screen families
the creator screen families
the admin screen families
the main overlays and modal logic
the dominant navigation flows
the shell structures

That is enough to move to the next step.

Next step

As agreed, the next step is:

Database schema draft

This will take the frozen backbone + frozen frontend and turn them into:

actual tables
fields
key relationships
state enums
implementation-grade structure

That is where weak assumptions get exposed for real.

ok, what's next?

Next is the database schema draft.

That means we turn the frozen product and screen architecture into:

actual tables
columns
primary/foreign keys
enums/status fields
constraints
indexing priorities
which fields should stay normalized vs JSON
which tables are core for launch vs later

In practical terms, we would define, one by one:

users
guide_profiles
visits
visit_versions
visit_steps
visit_step_media
libraries
library_items
clients
access_grants
user_entitlements
visit_likes
watchlist_items
guide_follows
offline_packages
offline_tokens
playback_sessions
visit_reviews
notifications
partner_offers
moderation / contract tables

And for each, we’d lock:

purpose
mandatory fields
allowed states
relationships
phase-1 vs phase-2 readiness

After that comes the backend routes/modules implementation plan.

So the next step is:

Step 17 — Database Schema Draft

I recommend we do it in this order:

identity and guide tables
visit/version/step/media tables
library/access/entitlement tables
engagement/offline/activity tables
admin/moderation/support tables
sounds great take me through all of this step by step while keeping track of the progression. i would like for the guides to be able to offer previews, ie: free segment(s) that will probably/usually be the first step where they can present the visit/tour, present themselves, so i would like for them to be able to record a video for this first step, either directly via the App (similarly as how they record audios, or by upolading a more elaborate presentation video. the presentation can be a profile presentation (and/or) a visit presentation. also, i would like the visitors to be able to signal something wrong by writting a message, choose if the alert is to be sent to the guide or to the App admin

Good. We’ll do it properly and keep a clear progression record.

Progress tracker
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Current
Database schema draft
Still to do
Backend routes/modules implementation plan

Within the database schema draft, we’ll go in this order:

Step 17.1

Identity, roles, guide profiles, visitor/admin issue reporting

Step 17.2

Visits, versions, steps, media, previews

Step 17.3

Libraries, clients, access grants, entitlements

Step 17.4

Likes, follows, watchlist, offline packages/tokens, playback/activity

Step 17.5

Reviews, notifications, partner offers, moderation/contracts

You also added two important requirements:

Guides can offer previews
This means we need support for:
free segment(s)
usually first step preview
video recorded directly in app or uploaded
guide profile presentation and/or visit presentation
Visitors can report a problem
This means we need:
a report/message table
recipient routing: guide or admin
link to visit / step / playback context
status tracking

Those are good additions. They fit the model cleanly if we place them correctly.

Step 17.1 — Identity, Roles, Guide Profiles, Reporting
Outcome of this step

We freeze the schema for:

users
roles / statuses
guide profiles
user preferences
visitor issue reporting

We are not yet doing visits themselves. That comes next.

17.1.1 users

This is the authentication and platform identity table.

Purpose

Stores the core account identity for any authenticated actor:

visitor
guide
admin
client admin
Recommended fields
users
-----
id
email
password_hash
role
status
is_email_verified
display_name
created_at
updated_at
last_login_at
Field logic
id

Primary key.

email

Unique, indexed.

password_hash

Authentication secret.

role

Top-level system role.

Recommended values:

visitor
guide
content_admin
client_admin
super_admin

Do not overcomplicate roles yet.

status

Recommended values:

active
pending
suspended
archived

This must be separate from role.

is_email_verified

Boolean.

display_name

Useful as a lightweight account-facing identity, but not a replacement for public guide profile naming.

17.1.2 user_preferences

You will need this early enough.

Purpose

Stores non-auth user settings.

Recommended fields
user_preferences
----------------
id
user_id
language_code
autoplay_enabled
map_orientation_mode
notification_settings_json
accessibility_settings_json
created_at
updated_at
Notes

Some of this can remain JSON at first because:

it is user-specific
not a high analytics priority
evolves frequently

That’s an acceptable use of JSON.

17.1.3 guide_profiles

This is a first-class table. Not optional.

Purpose

Public identity of the guide as seen by visitors.

Recommended fields
guide_profiles
--------------
id
user_id
public_name
bio_short
bio_long
photo_url
profile_video_url
languages_json
themes_json
regions_json
rating_avg
rating_count
followers_count
status
created_at
updated_at
Important decisions
user_id

Nullable only if you absolutely need pre-created profile stubs in controlled mode before activation.
But ideally, keep it linked to a real user as early as possible.

public_name

This is the displayed creator identity.

profile_video_url

This is where your new requirement lands.

You explicitly want guides to be able to present themselves. Good.

This field supports:

guide presentation video
reusable public intro
strong creator identity

This is distinct from visit preview videos.

languages_json

Okay for now as JSON array.

themes_json

Okay for now as JSON array.

regions_json

Okay for now as JSON array, unless you later want highly structured geo indexing.

status

Recommended values:

draft
active
suspended
archived
17.1.4 guide_profile_links optional but recommended
Purpose

Store guide external/public links later without polluting main profile.

guide_profile_links
-------------------
id
guide_profile_id
link_type
url
label
sort_order
created_at
updated_at

Later examples:

website
instagram
youtube
official guide site

Not mandatory for first build, but architecturally clean.

17.1.5 Reporting / issue signaling

This is your second new requirement.

You want visitors to be able to write a message and choose whether it goes to:

the guide
the app admin

That is good. It needs a proper table, not an ad hoc email form.

Recommended table: issue_reports
issue_reports
-------------
id
reported_by_user_id
recipient_type
recipient_user_id
guide_profile_id
visit_id
visit_version_id
visit_step_id
playback_session_id
category
subject
message
status
created_at
updated_at
resolved_at
Field logic
reported_by_user_id

The visitor sending the alert.

recipient_type

Recommended values:

guide
admin

This matches your UX directly.

recipient_user_id

Useful when the report is directed to a specific account-level recipient.

guide_profile_id

Useful if the report is guide-related at public-profile level.

visit_id

Link to visit.

visit_version_id

Very useful for diagnostics if content changed over time.

visit_step_id

Important because many issues will be step-specific:

wrong location
bad audio
inaccessible spot
missing point
unsafe route
playback_session_id

Helpful if the issue happened during actual use.

category

Recommended values:

wrong_information
gps_issue
audio_issue
media_issue
safety_issue
accessibility_issue
abuse_or_inappropriate
technical_problem
other
subject

Short summary.

message

Full user text.

status

Recommended values:

open
in_review
answered
resolved
dismissed

This is enough.

17.1.6 Optional message thread model

If you want real back-and-forth later, do not overload issue_reports itself.

Use:

issue_report_messages
issue_report_messages
---------------------
id
issue_report_id
sender_user_id
message
created_at

This supports:

visitor writes issue
guide/admin replies
later threaded handling

You may not need this in v1, but it is the correct extension path.

17.1.7 Why this reporting model is correct

Because it supports both:

operational problem handling
content quality improvement

And it doesn’t force you to choose between:

user support
guide communication

Your UX choice maps neatly into:

one report object
one recipient policy
one status lifecycle

That is clean.

17.1.8 New requirement: preview support

We are not fully modeling previews yet in this sub-step, because previews belong structurally to:

visits
steps
media
access/visibility

So the correct place to fully freeze preview logic is Step 17.2.

But we can already lock the conceptual split:

Guide-level preview
stored on guide_profiles.profile_video_url
Visit-level preview
will be stored at visit/version level
Step-level free preview segment
will be modeled on visit steps / step media / preview flags

That is the right separation.

17.1.9 Recommended constraints for this step
Users
email unique
index on (role, status)
Guide profiles
unique index on user_id where relevant
index on status
index on rating / followers later for discovery
Issue reports
index on status
index on recipient_type
index on visit_id
index on guide_profile_id
index on created_at
17.1.10 Hard truth on the reporting feature

This is useful, but it can become a garbage chute if unmanaged.

If you add reporting, you also need:

categories
status flow
moderation/response ownership later

Otherwise you’re just building a complaint inbox with no operating model.

So this was a good addition, but only because we are treating it as a real object in the schema.

Step 17.1 frozen output
Frozen tables
users
user_preferences
guide_profiles
guide_profile_links optional
issue_reports
issue_report_messages optional/next-stage
Frozen new requirements placement
guide self-presentation video → guide_profiles.profile_video_url
visitor issue signaling → issue_reports
Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1 complete
identity
preferences
guide profiles
issue reporting
Current next step
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
visits
versions
steps
media
preview/free segments
Next step preview

In Step 17.2, we will lock:

visits
visit_versions
visit_steps
visit_step_media
preview video fields
free preview flags
how the first step can be exposed as a teaser
how profile presentation vs visit presentation remain distinct

That is exactly where your preview requirement belongs.

Reply with continue and I’ll take you through Step 17.2.

continue

Good. We now move to the core content model.

Progress tracker
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
identity
preferences
guide profiles
issue reporting
Current
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
visits
versions
steps
media
previews / free segments
Still to do
Step 17.3 — libraries, clients, access grants, entitlements
Step 17.4 — likes, follows, watchlist, offline, playback/activity
Step 17.5 — reviews, notifications, offers, moderation/contracts
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Step 17.2 — Visits, Versions, Steps, Media, Previews
Outcome of this step

We freeze the schema for:

the persistent visit object
versioned visit content
ordered steps
step media
preview logic
free teaser segments
guide presentation vs visit presentation

This is where your platform stops being abstract and becomes a real content system.

17.2.1 Core rule: Visit vs Version

This is non-negotiable.

You need two layers:

A. visits

The permanent public/business object

B. visit_versions

The editable and publishable content snapshot

Why:

a visit must survive across edits
a published visit must remain stable while a new draft is being prepared
offline packages must bind to a stable version
moderation/review must act on a specific snapshot

If you collapse these two into one table, you will create pain immediately.

17.2.2 visits
Purpose

Represents the enduring visit identity visible to the platform:

ownership
visibility
monetization mode
current published version
business state
Recommended fields
visits
------
id
guide_profile_id
slug
current_published_version_id
visibility_mode
monetization_mode
status
is_featured
created_at
updated_at
published_at
archived_at
Field logic
guide_profile_id

Owner of the visit.

One visit should have one primary guide in v1.

slug

Public URL-safe identifier.

current_published_version_id

Points to the currently live version.

visibility_mode

Recommended values:

library_only
public
unlisted

This is central to your one-system/two-mode architecture.

monetization_mode

Recommended values:

included
free
pay_per_view
ad_supported
mixed

Even if some are disabled in Curated mode, the schema must support them now.

status

Recommended values:

draft
published
inactive
suspended
archived
is_featured

Useful for curated promotion or editorial surfacing.

17.2.3 visit_versions

This is the real content payload.

Purpose

Stores a stable snapshot of the visit content at a given version.

Recommended fields
visit_versions
--------------
id
visit_id
version_number
title
short_description
long_description
hero_image_url
visit_presentation_video_url
main_language
themes_json
main_route_profile
estimated_duration_min
distance_m
step_count
start_lat
start_lng
end_lat
end_lng
route_geometry_json
route_provider
route_generated_at
preview_mode
preview_step_limit
content_status
submitted_at
reviewed_at
published_at
created_by_user_id
created_at
updated_at
Important additions from your new requirement
visit_presentation_video_url

This is the visit-level presentation video.

You explicitly want guides to be able to introduce:

the tour itself
what the visitor will experience

That is not the same as the guide profile video.

So the split is:

Guide-level presentation

guide_profiles.profile_video_url

Visit-level presentation

visit_versions.visit_presentation_video_url

That is correct and clean.

More field logic
version_number

Simple integer versioning.

short_description

Used in cards / preview surfaces.

long_description

Used in visit detail page.

hero_image_url

Main visual identity for the visit.

main_language

Primary visit language.

themes_json

Acceptable as JSON array in early version.

main_route_profile

Recommended values:

walking
cycling
driving
route_geometry_json

Persisted route geometry.

preview_mode

New and important.

Recommended values:

none
first_step_free
multi_step_free
presentation_only

This supports the teaser logic you want.

preview_step_limit

Useful when:

first 1 step free
first 2 steps free
etc.
content_status

Recommended values:

draft
under_review
approved
rejected
published
archived

This is version-level, not visit-level.

17.2.4 Why preview belongs at version level

Because previews are content behavior, not identity behavior.

A guide may change:

which step is free
whether preview exists
the visit intro video
teaser structure

That belongs to the content snapshot.

Not to the permanent visit shell.

17.2.5 visit_steps

This is the ordered route structure.

Purpose

Stores the ordered checkpoints within one visit version.

Recommended fields
visit_steps
-----------
id
visit_version_id
step_index
title
description
audio_url
video_url
lat
lng
trigger_radius_m
duration_min
location_label
country
city
transport_metadata_json
emergency_tags_json
has_fee
has_accessibility
is_preview_enabled
preview_access_mode
safety_note
created_at
updated_at
Important additions
video_url

You explicitly want the first step to be able to contain:

a recorded video
or an uploaded presentation video

That belongs naturally here.

is_preview_enabled

Boolean to indicate that this step may be used in a free preview.

preview_access_mode

Recommended values:

none
free_preview
logged_in_preview
library_preview_only

You may not need all these modes immediately, but this is the right direction.

safety_note

Useful for:

traffic warnings
terrain issues
cycling/driving cautions
17.2.6 Free segment logic

You asked for free segment(s), usually first step.

The clean logic is:

Visit-level rule

visit_versions.preview_mode
defines the overall preview behavior

Step-level rule

visit_steps.is_preview_enabled
marks which step(s) are actually previewable

This lets you support:

only first step free
first 2 steps free
intro-only free
profile presentation only
no preview

without twisting the whole content model.

That is the right separation.

17.2.7 Recommended preview patterns

You should support these patterns from the start conceptually:

Pattern A — First step free

Most likely default.

Guide introduces:

themselves
the visit
the style
the promise
Pattern B — Visit presentation only

A dedicated intro video available before the tour starts.

Pattern C — First N steps free

Possible later.

Pattern D — No free preview

For certain gated/premium content.

That maps directly to the fields above.

17.2.8 Recording video directly in the app

From a schema standpoint, there is nothing special about “recorded in app” vs “uploaded.”

Both result in:

a media asset URL
metadata

So do not create separate database objects for:

recorded_video
uploaded_video

That would be stupid duplication.

Just store:

the resulting media asset reference
optional metadata if needed later
17.2.9 visit_step_media

Do not bury all media forever in JSON blobs.

Purpose

Stores structured step-level media attachments.

Recommended fields
visit_step_media
----------------
id
visit_step_id
media_type
url
caption
sort_order
is_preview_asset
meta_json
created_at
updated_at
Field logic
media_type

Recommended values:

image
text
video
quiz
external_link
audio_attachment
future_interactive
caption

Optional note or explanatory text.

sort_order

Needed for consistent rendering.

is_preview_asset

Important. Lets you mark whether a media item is preview-visible.

This is especially useful for:

first-step teaser images
intro video
preview-only assets
meta_json

Acceptable for flexible media-specific settings.

Examples:

video duration
thumbnail
text block formatting
future quiz metadata
17.2.10 Why step media should exist separately

Because later you will want:

multiple images
separate captions
video thumbnails
quiz payloads
optional interactive objects

If you keep everything in one giant recommendations/media JSON field forever, your creator tools and analytics will become garbage.

Your current creator wizard already manages images and captions per step in a way that points toward a dedicated step-media structure rather than one forever-JSON field.

17.2.11 Optional but recommended: visit_media_assets

If you want a reusable media library per visit, add a reusable asset table.

Purpose

Centralize assets uploaded for a visit version and reuse across steps.

visit_media_assets
------------------
id
visit_version_id
asset_type
url
thumbnail_url
duration_sec
file_size_bytes
checksum
status
created_at
updated_at

This is not mandatory for the first implementation, but it is a clean architecture if you expect creators to:

reuse the same media
replace assets
manage a media library

If you skip this now, it is still recoverable later.

17.2.12 visit_step_links optional but useful

If a step has external linked resources, keep them structured.

visit_step_links
----------------
id
visit_step_id
link_type
url
label
sort_order
created_at
updated_at

Examples:

official site
museum page
ticket link
map reference

Not critical for launch, but useful.

17.2.13 Route and step constraints

Recommended constraints:

For visit_steps
unique (visit_version_id, step_index)
index on (visit_version_id, step_index)
geographic indexes later if needed on step coordinates
For visit_versions
unique (visit_id, version_number)
index on content_status
index on main_route_profile
For visits
index on (guide_profile_id, status)
index on visibility_mode
index on monetization_mode
17.2.14 Hard truth on preview design

Your preview idea is good. But if you are not careful, creators will abuse it:

free first step with no real value
misleading teaser video
clickbait intros

So later you may need product rules like:

preview must contain actual guidance value
preview length cap
preview video max duration
no unrelated promo-only teaser

Do not over-regulate now, but be aware: preview systems get abused fast.

17.2.15 Clean separation of presentation types

This is now the correct model:

Guide presentation

Who I am as a guide
Stored at:

guide_profiles.profile_video_url
Visit presentation

What this tour/visit is about
Stored at:

visit_versions.visit_presentation_video_url
Step teaser / free segment

What this first checkpoint feels like
Stored at:

visit_steps.video_url
visit_steps.is_preview_enabled
visit_steps.preview_access_mode

That is the right architecture. No confusion.

17.2.16 Recommended future validations

Later, at business-rule level, you may enforce:

previewable step count ≤ configured preview limit
preview-enabled steps must belong to published version
first free step usually must be early in the sequence
preview playback cannot unlock non-preview assets

These are not schema rules, but you should remember them.

Step 17.2 frozen output
Frozen tables
visits
visit_versions
visit_steps
visit_step_media
Optional / recommended extensions
visit_media_assets
visit_step_links
Frozen preview model
guide presentation video → guide profile
visit presentation video → visit version
free preview segment(s) → step-level preview flags + version-level preview mode
Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2 complete
visits
versions
steps
media
previews / free segments
Current next step
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
libraries
clients
access grants
entitlements
Still after that
Step 17.4 — likes, follows, watchlist, offline, playback/activity
Step 17.5 — reviews, notifications, offers, moderation/contracts
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
What comes next in Step 17.3

We will lock the business-control layer that makes your Curated operating mode actually work without breaking the one-system model:

libraries
library_items
clients
access_grants
user_entitlements

This is where the B2B packaging logic becomes real.

Reply with continue and I’ll take you through Step 17.3.

continue

Good. Now we lock the business-access layer.

Progress tracker
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
identity
preferences
guide profiles
issue reporting
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
visits
versions
steps
media
previews / free segments
Current
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
libraries
clients
access grants
entitlements
Still to do
Step 17.4 — likes, follows, watchlist, offline, playback/activity
Step 17.5 — reviews, notifications, offers, moderation/contracts
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Step 17.3 — Libraries, Clients, Access Grants, Entitlements
Outcome of this step

We freeze the schema for:

curated content packaging
B2B client entities
time-bound access
concurrency limits
future-compatible user entitlements

This is the layer that makes your Curated operating mode possible without corrupting the Open Marketplace architecture.

The core rule here is simple:

👉 Libraries are an access/packaging layer, not the core definition of content.

If you accidentally make libraries the only way visits can exist, you break the one-system strategy.

17.3.1 libraries
Purpose

Represents a named content collection used for:

curated packaging
thematic grouping
geographic grouping
client-facing bundles
internal editorial grouping
Recommended fields
libraries
---------
id
name
description
library_type
status
visibility_mode
cover_image_url
sort_order
created_by_user_id
created_at
updated_at
archived_at
Field logic
name

Human-readable title.

description

Business/editorial explanation.

library_type

Recommended values:

geographic
thematic
client_specific
curated_collection
internal

This gives you structure without overdesign.

status

Recommended values:

draft
active
inactive
archived
visibility_mode

Recommended values:

internal
assigned_only
public_catalog

This is useful later if some libraries become visible as public collections.

cover_image_url

Useful for client/admin UI and later public collection surfaces.

sort_order

Optional but useful for curated sequencing.

17.3.2 Why libraries must stay separate from visits

A visit may:

belong to zero libraries
belong to one library
belong to many libraries

A library may:

contain many visits
change over time
be reused across clients

So the relationship must be many-to-many.

That is non-negotiable.

17.3.3 library_items
Purpose

Join table linking visits into libraries.

Recommended fields
library_items
-------------
id
library_id
visit_id
sort_order
active_from
active_until
status
created_at
updated_at
Field logic
library_id

The parent library.

visit_id

The linked visit.

Important: link the visit, not the version.

Why:

the visit is the durable business object
version resolution should happen through published-version logic
you do not want to duplicate library membership every time a new version is published
sort_order

Useful for curated sequencing.

active_from / active_until

Very useful for temporary packaging and timed content windows.

status

Recommended values:

active
inactive
scheduled
expired

This lets you keep a membership record without deleting history.

17.3.4 Version pinning — do you need it now?

Possibly later, but not as a default first-layer requirement.

If a client must receive a specific version for contractual stability, you may later add:

pinned_visit_version_id

to library_items or a client-assignment layer.

But do not make that your default now. It adds complexity early.

Default behavior should be:

library contains a visit
user gets the current valid published version allowed by visibility/access logic

That is the sane default.

17.3.5 clients
Purpose

Represents a B2B organization in Curated mode.

Examples:

cruise companies
tour operators
institutions
resellers
Recommended fields
clients
-------
id
name
client_type
status
contact_name
contact_email
notes
created_at
updated_at
archived_at
Field logic
client_type

Recommended values:

cruise_company
tour_operator
institution
reseller
other
status

Recommended values:

active
inactive
suspended
archived
contact_name / contact_email

Minimum operational contact data.

notes

Useful operational field. Fine as free text.

17.3.6 client_users optional but recommended

If you later want multiple internal users representing one client, keep that separate.

Purpose

Links user accounts to a client.

client_users
------------
id
client_id
user_id
client_role
status
created_at
updated_at
client_role

Recommended values:

viewer
manager
admin

You may not need this immediately if Curated mode mainly uses credentialed access envelopes rather than individualized client dashboards, but it is the correct extension path.

17.3.7 access_grants

This is the real Phase 1 access envelope.

Purpose

Represents a time-bound access contract between a client and a library.

This is where:

validity periods
concurrency rules
credential-based access

actually live.

Recommended fields
access_grants
-------------
id
client_id
library_id
grant_name
credential_username
credential_password_hash
valid_from
valid_until
max_concurrent_sessions
status
mode
notes
created_at
updated_at
revoked_at
Field logic
client_id

Owning client.

library_id

Assigned library.

grant_name

Useful because a client may have multiple grants over time.

credential_username

The shared or assigned identifier used for access in Curated mode.

credential_password_hash

Stored securely, never raw.

valid_from / valid_until

Non-negotiable.

max_concurrent_sessions

Directly supports your stated model:

controlled number of simultaneous usages
status

Recommended values:

draft
active
inactive
expired
revoked
mode

Recommended values:

shared_credentials
named_users
mixed

This is useful because you said Curated mode may use shared ID/password access, but you should not hardcode that forever.

17.3.8 Why access_grants is correct

Because it captures the real commercial object:

not just:

client has library

but:

client has library
under defined conditions
for a defined period
with defined concurrency

That is exactly your model.

17.3.9 access_grant_sessions optional but highly recommended

If you enforce concurrency seriously, you need a session-tracking table.

Purpose

Track active usage under one grant.

access_grant_sessions
---------------------
id
access_grant_id
user_id
session_token
started_at
last_seen_at
ended_at
status
created_at
updated_at
Status values
active
ended
expired
terminated

Why this matters:

concurrency checks need real state
otherwise max_concurrent_sessions is just decorative

You may implement this later operationally, but structurally it is the correct table.

17.3.10 user_entitlements

This is critical for the one-system strategy.

Do not rely only on access_grants, because Open Marketplace mode will need non-client access rights.

Purpose

Represents per-user access rights to:

a visit
a library
a bundle
a promotional grant
later, a purchase/subscription entitlement
Recommended fields
user_entitlements
-----------------
id
user_id
visit_id
library_id
entitlement_type
source
valid_from
valid_until
status
meta_json
created_at
updated_at
revoked_at
Field logic
user_id

The beneficiary user.

visit_id

Nullable.

library_id

Nullable.

Rule:

at least one of visit_id or library_id must be present
entitlement_type

Recommended values:

purchase
subscription
grant
promo
bundle_access
client_access
source

Recommended values:

manual_admin
client_grant
payment
promo_code
system
valid_from / valid_until

Needed for all time-bound rights.

status

Recommended values:

active
expired
revoked
pending
meta_json

Acceptable for supplemental source metadata.

17.3.11 Why user_entitlements must exist now

Because this is what keeps your architecture Phase-2-ready.

Without it, you end up encoding all access through:

client grants
shared credentials
library gates

Then Open Marketplace becomes a mess.

So this table is mandatory for one-system integrity, even if early usage is light.

17.3.12 Access resolution logic at schema level

Your access model now has three major layers:

Layer 1 — Public visibility

Visit can be public.

Layer 2 — Library-based access

Visit accessible because user/client has access to a library containing it.

Layer 3 — Direct user entitlement

Visit/library accessible because the user has a direct right.

That is exactly what you need.

17.3.13 Optional but useful: library_entitlements

You probably do not need this table if user_entitlements.library_id already exists.

So do not add duplicate entitlement tables unless you have a specific reason.
Keep entitlement logic centralized.

17.3.14 Recommended constraints
library_items
unique (library_id, visit_id)
index on library_id
index on visit_id
index on status
clients
index on status
index on client_type
access_grants
index on (client_id, library_id)
index on status
index on valid_until
unique or constrained username policy as needed
user_entitlements
index on user_id
index on (user_id, status)
index on visit_id
index on library_id
index on valid_until
17.3.15 Important business rule checks later

Not schema, but must be implemented at service level:

active grant must not exceed concurrency
expired grant must not authorize token refresh
library-only visit should not appear unless access resolves true
revoked entitlement must cut off future access
public visit should still be playable even with no library

These rules matter because the schema alone does not enforce business truth.

17.3.16 Hard truth on shared credentials

Your shared ID/password model is commercially practical for Curated mode, but it is also risky.

Risks:

uncontrolled sharing
weak attribution
messy analytics
weaker fraud control

It is fine as a launch/business constraint, but you should treat it as:

an operating-mode concession
not the ideal final identity model

That’s exactly why user_entitlements must already exist in the architecture.

17.3.17 Minimal clean schema summary for this step
Core tables frozen now
libraries
library_items
clients
access_grants
user_entitlements
Recommended extension
client_users
access_grant_sessions

That is the cleanest shape.

17.3.18 One-system validation check

After this step, ask the important question:

Can a visit exist:

in no library
in several libraries
as public only
with direct user purchase later
under a client grant now

If yes, the architecture is still sound.

If no, the one-system model has already been compromised.

Right now, with this schema, it remains sound.

Step 17.3 frozen output
Frozen tables
libraries
library_items
clients
access_grants
user_entitlements
Recommended support tables
client_users
access_grant_sessions
Frozen principle

Libraries and grants are an access/distribution layer, not the core definition of content.

Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
Database schema draft — Step 17.3 complete
libraries
clients
access grants
entitlements
Current next step
Database schema draft — Step 17.4
likes
follows
watchlist
offline packages/tokens
playback/activity
Still after that
Step 17.5 — reviews, notifications, offers, moderation/contracts
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
What comes next in Step 17.4

We will now model the engagement and continuity layer:

what users like
whom they follow
what they save for offline
package/token objects
playback sessions
activity continuity

This is where the product becomes sticky.

Reply with continue and I’ll take you through Step 17.4.

continue. except when you need my input, please always consider that i rely on you to continue

Good. I’ll keep driving unless a real decision point needs your input.

Progress tracker
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
Current
Database schema draft — Step 17.4
likes
follows
watchlist
offline packages/tokens
playback/activity
Still to do
Step 17.5 — reviews, notifications, offers, moderation/contracts
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Step 17.4 — Engagement, Watchlist, Offline, Playback, Activity
Outcome of this step

We freeze the schema for:

visit likes
guide follows
watchlist/download intent
offline package records
offline tokens
playback sessions
activity continuity

This is the layer that turns the app from a one-off utility into a repeatable product.

17.4.1 visit_likes
Purpose

Stores lightweight positive preference signals.

This is not ownership, not download, not activity.

It is:

user taste signal
ranking signal
social proof input
Recommended fields
visit_likes
-----------
id
user_id
visit_id
created_at
Rules
unique (user_id, visit_id)
index on visit_id
index on user_id

That is enough.

Do not overcomplicate likes with states.
If it exists, the user likes it. If removed, delete the row.

17.4.2 guide_follows
Purpose

Stores the visitor → guide relationship.

This is the retention backbone for your creator layer.

Recommended fields
guide_follows
-------------
id
user_id
guide_profile_id
created_at
Rules
unique (user_id, guide_profile_id)
index on guide_profile_id
index on user_id

Again, keep it simple.

Do not add “follow states” unless you have a real reason.
Following is binary enough for now.

17.4.3 Why likes and follows must stay separate

This is important.

A user may:

like a visit
not follow the guide

or:

follow a guide
not like every visit

Those are different behavioral signals and must not be collapsed.

If you merge them conceptually, recommendations become dumb and user intent becomes muddy.

17.4.4 watchlist_items

This is one of the most important tables in your product because it bridges:

user intent
offline behavior
content protection
retention
Purpose

Represents the user’s explicit offline/save intent for a visit.

Recommended fields
watchlist_items
---------------
id
user_id
visit_id
state
download_state
download_requested_at
download_completed_at
last_played_at
last_token_refresh_at
auto_delete_after
storage_bytes
created_at
updated_at
removed_at
Field logic
state

Recommended values:

active
removed
expired
download_state

Recommended values:

not_downloaded
queued
downloading
ready
corrupted
expired

This distinction matters.
A watchlist item can exist as intent even before the local package is fully ready.

download_requested_at

Tracks user action.

download_completed_at

Tracks package readiness.

last_played_at

Used for activity continuity and auto-deletion logic.

last_token_refresh_at

Operationally useful.

auto_delete_after

Stores the planned deletion timestamp for inactivity logic.

storage_bytes

Useful for storage management UI.

17.4.5 Why Watchlist must not equal offline package

Because a watchlist item is a user object and an offline package is a delivery object.

You may:

remove local data but keep watchlist intent
re-download a visit later
keep a visit in watchlist even if download expired

So these must stay separate.

That is a very important architectural distinction.

17.4.6 offline_packages
Purpose

Represents the local downloadable packaged visit state as known by the server/app model.

This is not necessarily the raw on-device storage container itself.
It is the authoritative metadata record for that package.

Recommended fields
offline_packages
----------------
id
user_id
visit_version_id
watchlist_item_id
package_version
package_manifest_json
package_hash
encryption_scheme
downloaded_at
last_opened_at
status
created_at
updated_at
removed_at
Field logic
visit_version_id

This is critical.

Offline packages must bind to a specific visit version, not just the visit shell.

watchlist_item_id

Links the package to the user-facing watchlist object.

package_version

Useful if your packaging format changes over time.

package_manifest_json

Acceptable JSON use.

Contains:

required assets
optional assets
media references
checksums
package_hash

Useful for integrity.

encryption_scheme

Do not overcomplicate now, but keep the field.

status

Recommended values:

active
stale
expired
removed
corrupted
17.4.7 offline_tokens
Purpose

Represents tokenized offline authorization state for a given user + visit version.

This is distinct from:

entitlement
package
watchlist

That separation is non-negotiable.

Recommended fields
offline_tokens
--------------
id
user_id
visit_version_id
watchlist_item_id
token_value_hash
valid_from
valid_until
refresh_policy
last_refreshed_at
status
created_at
updated_at
revoked_at
Field logic
token_value_hash

Never store sensitive token material raw if you can avoid it.

refresh_policy

Recommended values:

daily_check
rolling_window
fixed_expiry

This maps directly to your Curated vs Open operational logic.

status

Recommended values:

valid
expired
revoked

That is enough for now.

17.4.8 Why offline package and token must remain separate

Because:

Package answers:

“Do I have the content locally?”

Token answers:

“Am I allowed to open it right now?”

If you merge them, you will create bugs that are painful to reason about.

Examples:

package intact but token expired
token valid but package corrupted
watchlist kept but package removed
re-download needed without entitlement change

This separation is correct.

17.4.9 playback_sessions

This is the continuity and analytics backbone.

Purpose

Tracks an instance of user interaction with a visit version.

It powers:

Activity tab
resume logic
completion
analytics
error context
Recommended fields
playback_sessions
-----------------
id
user_id
visit_version_id
watchlist_item_id
started_at
ended_at
last_step_index
completion_percent
mode
autoplay_enabled
location_mode
status
last_known_lat
last_known_lng
created_at
updated_at
Field logic
watchlist_item_id

Nullable.
Some sessions will be streaming/public/web sessions.

mode

Recommended values:

app_offline
app_online
web_streaming
autoplay_enabled

Important because this changes actual behavior.

location_mode

Recommended values:

gps
manual
mixed
status

Recommended values:

in_progress
completed
abandoned
last_step_index

Critical for resume.

completion_percent

Useful for UI and analytics.

last_known_lat / last_known_lng

Optional but very useful for diagnostics and resume context.

17.4.10 Why playback sessions should be session-based, not just a progress field on watchlist

Because users can:

play without watchlisting
replay multiple times
start on web then later on app
abandon and restart

A session model gives you proper history and cleaner logic.

If you just store “current progress” on the visit/user row, you destroy activity history and make analytics shallow.

17.4.11 activity_snapshots — do you need it?

Not necessarily as a first-class table.

Your Activity tab can likely be resolved from:

playback_sessions
watchlist_items

So do not invent redundant “activity” tables unless performance later demands it.

This is one of those places where over-modeling would be stupid.

17.4.12 Resume logic at schema level

To support resume cleanly, the session model needs enough state.

Minimum needed:

current visit version
last step index
completion percent
status
mode
last touched time

You already have that with playback_sessions.

So the data model is sound.

17.4.13 Auto-delete support

You wanted a downloaded visit to be automatically deleted after long inactivity.

The correct place for that timing is primarily:

watchlist_items.auto_delete_after
and secondarily:
offline_packages.status

That is correct because:

watchlist tracks user intent/state
package tracks actual local package condition

Do not put auto-delete logic only inside offline_tokens.
That would be mixing rights with storage lifecycle.

17.4.14 download_jobs — do you need it?

Possibly later, not necessarily now.

If your download/packaging pipeline becomes asynchronous and needs persistent job tracking, add:

download_jobs
-------------
id
user_id
visit_version_id
watchlist_item_id
job_type
status
progress_percent
error_message
created_at
updated_at
completed_at

But this is an execution-layer concern.
Do not add it to the core schema unless you truly need it.

For now:

watchlist_items.download_state
offline_packages
are enough.
17.4.15 Recommended constraints
visit_likes
unique (user_id, visit_id)
guide_follows
unique (user_id, guide_profile_id)
watchlist_items
unique (user_id, visit_id) if you want one watchlist record per visit per user
index on (user_id, state)
index on download_state
index on auto_delete_after
offline_packages
index on (user_id, visit_version_id)
index on status
unique logic depending on packaging policy, usually one active package per user/version
offline_tokens
index on (user_id, visit_version_id)
index on valid_until
index on status
playback_sessions
index on user_id
index on (user_id, status)
index on visit_version_id
index on updated_at
17.4.16 Edge-case strength of this model

With this structure, you can cleanly represent cases like:

Case A

User liked a visit, never downloaded it
→ visit_likes only

Case B

User added to watchlist, download corrupted
→ watchlist_items + offline_packages.status = corrupted

Case C

User has package but token expired
→ package active, token expired

Case D

User streamed on web, then later downloaded on app
→ playback session exists before watchlist/package

This is exactly what a good schema should allow.

17.4.17 Hard truth on offline

Your offline system is a competitive strength, but it is also one of the fastest ways to create fragile complexity.

The only reason it remains manageable is because we are cleanly separating:

preference
save intent
package
token
session

If you later let your implementation blur these, you will create a mess.

So the schema is doing its job here.

17.4.18 Minimal frozen schema summary for this step
Frozen tables
visit_likes
guide_follows
watchlist_items
offline_packages
offline_tokens
playback_sessions
Optional later
download_jobs

That is the correct core.

Step 17.4 frozen output
Frozen principle

Engagement, offline state, and playback continuity are related but must remain structurally separate.

Frozen tables
likes
follows
watchlist
package
token
playback session
Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
Database schema draft — Step 17.4 complete
likes
follows
watchlist
offline packages/tokens
playback/activity
Current next step
Database schema draft — Step 17.5
reviews
notifications
partner offers
moderation
guide contracts
Still after that
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
What comes next in Step 17.5

We will lock the final support/control layer:

ratings/reviews
notifications
contextual offers
moderation workflow records
guide contracts / rights control

This is the last schema step before moving into backend modules and routes.

Continuing.

ok, amazing. let's keep going

Good. We finish the schema now.

Progress tracker
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
Database schema draft — Step 17.4
Current
Database schema draft — Step 17.5
reviews
notifications
partner offers
moderation
guide contracts
Still to do
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Step 17.5 — Reviews, Notifications, Offers, Moderation, Contracts
Outcome of this step

We freeze the schema for:

ratings and reviews
notifications
contextual promotions/offers
moderation/review records
guide contracts / rights control

This is the final schema layer that supports:

trust
retention
monetization boundaries
Curated-mode governance
17.5.1 visit_reviews
Purpose

Stores user ratings and optional written reviews for visits.

You chose a simple star model. Correct.

Recommended fields
visit_reviews
-------------
id
user_id
visit_id
visit_version_id
playback_session_id
rating
comment
status
created_at
updated_at
hidden_at
Field logic
user_id

Reviewer.

visit_id

Public/business object being reviewed.

visit_version_id

Useful for forensic analysis and content-quality tracking.

playback_session_id

Optional but strong. Lets you tie a review to an actual usage context.

rating

Integer 1–5.

comment

Optional text review.

status

Recommended values:

visible
hidden
flagged
moderated

Keep it simple.

17.5.2 Why both visit_id and visit_version_id matter

Because:

Public scoring belongs to the visit

Users perceive they are rating the visit.

Quality analysis may need the version

If version 3 tanked quality, you want to know that.

That is why both should exist.

17.5.3 Constraints for reviews

Recommended:

unique (user_id, visit_id) if you want one canonical review per visit per user
or no unique constraint if you want multiple ratings over time
My recommendation

Use:

one visible review per user per visit
allow updates

So:

unique (user_id, visit_id)

That is cleaner.

17.5.4 notifications
Purpose

Stores user-facing platform notifications.

This must support:

guide updates
recommendation nudges
system alerts
token/download warnings
later: promo offers
Recommended fields
notifications
-------------
id
user_id
type
title
body
action_url
payload_json
status
priority
sent_at
read_at
dismissed_at
created_at
updated_at
Field logic
type

Recommended values:

guide_new_visit
recommendation
resume_visit
token_expiring
package_removed
client_access_update
promo_offer
system_alert
status

Recommended values:

queued
sent
read
dismissed
failed
priority

Recommended values:

low
normal
high
payload_json

Acceptable use of JSON for contextual data.

Examples:

guide id
visit id
offer id
playback context
17.5.5 notification_preferences — do you need it?

You could keep notification settings inside user_preferences.notification_settings_json.

That is acceptable early.

So do not add a separate table yet unless:

you need heavy per-channel logic
you need multi-device preference complexity

Right now, user_preferences is enough.

17.5.6 partner_offers

You said you want targeted ads/deals, but we already locked that they must live in safe zones.

Good.

Purpose

Stores contextual tourism/commercial offers.

Recommended fields
partner_offers
--------------
id
partner_name
title
description
offer_type
image_url
cta_url
location_lat
location_lng
radius_m
valid_from
valid_until
targeting_rules_json
status
created_at
updated_at
archived_at
Field logic
offer_type

Recommended values:

discount
ticket
meal
activity
sponsored_recommendation
location_lat / location_lng / radius_m

Lets you anchor offers geographically.

targeting_rules_json

Acceptable JSON use.

Examples:

theme match
visit proximity
language
guide category
city
status

Recommended values:

draft
active
inactive
expired
archived
17.5.7 Why offers need their own table

Because if you fake offers as:

visits
notifications only
generic CMS banners

you will pollute your core product model.

Offers are not visits.
They are contextual commercial objects.

So keep them structurally separate.

That was the right call earlier, and this table makes it real.

17.5.8 content_reviews

This is admin moderation on visit versions.

Purpose

Tracks review actions on submitted visit versions.

Recommended fields
content_reviews
---------------
id
visit_version_id
reviewed_by_user_id
review_status
review_notes
created_at
updated_at
decided_at
Field logic
visit_version_id

The reviewed content snapshot.

reviewed_by_user_id

Admin reviewer.

review_status

Recommended values:

pending
approved
rejected
changes_requested
review_notes

Reviewer explanation.

This is enough for a proper moderation queue.

17.5.9 guide_contracts

This is crucial for Curated mode and still useful later.

Purpose

Stores the contractual/business rights logic governing a guide’s content relationship with the platform.

Recommended fields
guide_contracts
---------------
id
guide_profile_id
contract_type
rights_mode
valid_from
valid_until
terms_reference
status
notes
created_at
updated_at
archived_at
Field logic
contract_type

Recommended values:

curated_exclusive
curated_nonexclusive
open_platform_standard
special
rights_mode

Recommended values:

temporary_transfer
licensed_use
platform_standard_terms

This maps directly to your business model evolution.

status

Recommended values:

draft
active
expired
terminated
archived
terms_reference

Reference to actual contract doc or legal record.

17.5.10 Why guide contracts matter now

Because you explicitly want:

Curated mode

Professional guides with special contractual conditions.

Open mode

Standard platform terms for self-serve creators.

If you do not model this now, you will later end up with business-critical rights logic hidden in spreadsheets or emails.

That would be amateur hour.

So yes, this belongs in the schema.

17.5.11 Optional but recommended: content_flags

If users or admins flag problematic content beyond normal support issues, this is useful.

Purpose

Separate content/community flags from support reports.

content_flags
-------------
id
reported_by_user_id
visit_id
visit_version_id
visit_step_id
flag_type
message
status
created_at
updated_at
resolved_at
flag_type

Examples:

inappropriate
unsafe
misleading
copyrighted
abusive

You may not need this immediately because issue_reports already exists, but it is the correct extension if moderation volume grows.

17.5.12 Optional but recommended: offer_impressions / offer_clicks

Not needed in core schema now unless monetization analytics are immediate priority.

You can derive/track later through an events system.

So do not prematurely create a bloated ad-tech schema.

That would be a waste.

17.5.13 Constraints and indexes
visit_reviews
unique (user_id, visit_id)
index on visit_id
index on visit_version_id
index on status
notifications
index on user_id
index on (user_id, status)
index on type
index on created_at
partner_offers
index on status
index on valid_until
geo index later if using spatial logic
index on offer_type
content_reviews
unique or constrained lifecycle per version as needed
index on visit_version_id
index on review_status
guide_contracts
index on guide_profile_id
index on status
index on valid_until
17.5.14 Hard truth on notifications and offers

These two tables are dangerous if abused.

Notifications become spam very easily.
Offers become UX pollution very easily.

The reason they are safe in your architecture is because:

they are not masquerading as visits
they are not merged into playback content
they remain structurally secondary objects

That distinction protects the product.

If later your implementation team blurs this, the UX will rot.

17.5.15 Final schema integrity check

At this point, your schema now cleanly supports:

identity
guide public identity
issue reporting
versioned visits
step media
previews/free teaser segments
library distribution
client access
user entitlements
likes/follows
watchlist/download intent
offline packages
offline tokens
playback sessions
reviews
notifications
contextual offers
moderation
guide rights/contracts

That is a complete product-level relational backbone.

17.5.16 Minimal frozen schema summary for this step
Frozen tables
visit_reviews
notifications
partner_offers
content_reviews
guide_contracts
Optional extensions
content_flags
offer analytics tables later
Step 17.5 frozen output
Frozen principle

Trust, retention, monetization, and governance must be modeled as separate supporting objects—not blended into visits or playback.

Frozen tables
reviews
notifications
offers
moderation
contracts
Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
Database schema draft — Step 17.4
Database schema draft — Step 17.5 complete
reviews
notifications
partner offers
moderation
contracts
Current next step
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Database schema draft status

The schema draft is now complete at the conceptual table level.

The next step is exactly what we planned:

Step 18 — Backend Routes / Modules Implementation Plan

We will go in this order:

backend module boundaries
route families
minimal launch endpoints
curated-mode governance endpoints
open-mode expansion endpoints
background jobs / async work
implementation order

That is the last major architecture step before turning this into actual implementation deliverables.

Continuing.

continue

Good. We now turn the schema into an implementation structure.

Progress tracker
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
Database schema draft — Step 17.4
Database schema draft — Step 17.5
Current
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Within Step 18

18.1 backend module boundaries
18.2 route families
18.3 minimal launch endpoints
18.4 curated-mode governance endpoints
18.5 open-mode expansion endpoints
18.6 background jobs / async work
18.7 implementation order

This is the final architecture layer before actual code planning.

Step 18 — Backend Routes / Modules Implementation Plan
Outcome

We define:

backend module boundaries
route families
what belongs together
what the launch API must expose first
what is mode-dependent versus core
what should be synchronous versus async

The key rule stays the same:

👉 one backend platform, modular monolith first

Not microservices. Not split systems. Not “phase 1 backend” and “phase 2 backend”.

18.1 — Backend module boundaries

You need clean domain modules. If you do not separate them now, your codebase will rot quickly.

Recommended module set:

1. Auth / Identity Module

Responsibility:

login
logout
registration policy
session/auth handling
role/status checks

Core entities:

users
user_preferences
2. Guide Module

Responsibility:

guide profile CRUD
public guide profile retrieval
follow/unfollow
guide listing later

Core entities:

guide_profiles
guide_follows
guide_profile_links
guide_contracts
3. Visit Module

Responsibility:

visit shell CRUD
version CRUD
step CRUD
publish/submit lifecycle
preview logic
visit detail retrieval

Core entities:

visits
visit_versions
visit_steps
visit_step_media
optional visit_media_assets

This is one of the heaviest modules.

4. Media Module

Responsibility:

upload audio
upload image
upload video
validate media
manage asset references

Core entities:

media storage references
optional visit_media_assets

This should be separate from Visit Module at service level, even if tightly connected.

5. Routing Module

Responsibility:

generate route geometry
hide routing provider
later caching/fallback/provider switching

This module should stay very small but isolated.

6. Discovery Module

Responsibility:

unified search
map/list dataset resolution
visibility + entitlement filtering
ranking

Core input sources:

visits
guide profiles
libraries/access/entitlements
likes/follows/history later

This is the “search brain.”

7. Library / Access Module

Responsibility:

libraries
library membership
clients
access grants
entitlement resolution

Core entities:

libraries
library_items
clients
client_users
access_grants
access_grant_sessions
user_entitlements

This module is central to Curated mode and must stay clean.

8. Watchlist / Offline Module

Responsibility:

add/remove watchlist
package request/init
token refresh
package state reporting

Core entities:

watchlist_items
offline_packages
offline_tokens

This is one of your differentiators, so keep it isolated.

9. Playback / Activity Module

Responsibility:

start playback session
session heartbeat/update
complete session
resume state
activity retrieval

Core entities:

playback_sessions
10. Review / Rating Module

Responsibility:

create/update review
fetch reviews
compute or expose rating aggregates
later moderation hooks

Core entities:

visit_reviews
11. Notification Module

Responsibility:

notification creation
notification delivery state
notification retrieval/read state

Core entities:

notifications
12. Offer / Promotion Module

Responsibility:

contextual offer CRUD
targeting evaluation later
safe-zone surfacing

Core entities:

partner_offers
13. Reporting / Support Module

Responsibility:

create issue reports
route issue to guide/admin
track status
optional threaded responses later

Core entities:

issue_reports
optional issue_report_messages
14. Moderation / Admin Module

Responsibility:

review queue
approve/reject content
activate/deactivate guide/visit/library/grant
governance controls
mode flags/settings

Core entities:

content_reviews
guide_contracts
admin-level updates across all modules
18.2 — Route families

Now we define the outward API families. These should map cleanly to the modules above.

Recommended route namespaces:

/api/auth
/api/me
/api/guides
/api/visits
/api/discovery
/api/media
/api/routing
/api/watchlist
/api/offline
/api/playback
/api/reviews
/api/notifications
/api/reports
/api/admin
/api/admin/libraries
/api/admin/clients
/api/admin/access-grants

This is much cleaner than dumping everything into /api/letsgetout/*.

If you want a product namespace for platform organization, use it one level higher, not as a giant mixed bucket.

Example:

/api/letsgetout/discovery
/api/letsgetout/visits

But the internal domain separation should stay the same.

18.3 — Minimal launch endpoints
This is the most important sub-step

We are not listing everything imaginable. We are defining the endpoints you actually need first.

18.3.1 Auth / Identity — minimal launch
POST /api/auth/login

Login.

POST /api/auth/logout

Logout.

GET /api/me

Return current user summary:

id
role
basic preferences
guide profile summary if applicable
PUT /api/me/preferences

Update:

autoplay
map orientation
notifications
language

You do not need fancy auth endpoints first. Keep it basic.

18.3.2 Guide — minimal launch
GET /api/guides/:guideId

Public guide profile.

POST /api/guides/:guideId/follow

Follow guide.

DELETE /api/guides/:guideId/follow

Unfollow guide.

GET /api/me/followed-guides

Saved → Guides tab.

That is enough for launch.

18.3.3 Visit — minimal launch
GET /api/visits/:visitId/preview

Return the compact preview-card payload.

GET /api/visits/:visitId

Return the full visit detail payload.

GET /api/visits/:visitId/steps

Optional separately, if you do not want to include all step detail in the detail payload.

POST /api/visits/:visitId/like

Like visit.

DELETE /api/visits/:visitId/like

Unlike visit.

Those are core visitor actions.

18.3.4 Discovery — minimal launch
GET /api/discovery/search

This is one of the most critical endpoints.

It must support:

query
location mode
coordinates
selected city/location anchor
filters
map/list same output basis

Suggested params:

q
location_mode
lat
lng
city_id or location_label
bbox
themes[]
duration_min
duration_max
rating_min
transport_mode
view_mode
page
limit

This endpoint should return a unified dataset, not separate map and list logic.

18.3.5 Playback / Activity — minimal launch
POST /api/playback/start

Start playback session.

POST /api/playback/heartbeat

Update:

last step
percent
location
status
POST /api/playback/complete

Mark completed.

GET /api/me/activity/in-progress

For Activity tab.

GET /api/me/activity/recent

For Activity tab.

GET /api/me/activity/completed

For Activity tab.

This is enough to support continuity.

18.3.6 Reviews — minimal launch
GET /api/visits/:visitId/reviews

Get reviews.

POST /api/visits/:visitId/reviews

Create/update user review.

DELETE /api/me/reviews/:reviewId

Optional early, depending on your moderation policy.

Enough for the current simple star system.

18.3.7 Reports — minimal launch
POST /api/reports

Create issue report.

Payload should support:

recipient type
guide/admin target
visit
step
message
category
GET /api/me/reports

Optional if you want users to track their reports.

For the guide/admin side, this will come under admin or guide console routes later.

18.3.8 Watchlist / Offline — minimal launch
POST /api/watchlist/:visitId

Add to watchlist.

DELETE /api/watchlist/:visitId

Remove from watchlist.

GET /api/me/watchlist

List watchlist items.

POST /api/offline/packages/:visitId/request

Request package preparation / package manifest.

POST /api/offline/tokens/:visitId/refresh

Refresh token if allowed.

POST /api/offline/packages/:visitId/report-opened

Optional but useful.

POST /api/offline/packages/:visitId/report-removed

Optional but useful.

This is enough to start without building a monster download orchestration system.

18.4 — Creator / guide console endpoints
Still part of launch backbone

These are needed to make the creator side actually usable.

18.4.1 Creator — visit shell endpoints
GET /api/me/visits

List creator’s visits.

POST /api/me/visits

Create visit shell.

GET /api/me/visits/:visitId

Get creator-side visit object.

PUT /api/me/visits/:visitId

Update visit shell fields.

18.4.2 Creator — version endpoints
POST /api/me/visits/:visitId/versions

Create new draft version.

GET /api/me/visits/:visitId/versions

List versions.

GET /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId

Get one version detail.

PUT /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId

Update version metadata.

This is mandatory because your creator workflow is version-based whether the UI fully exposes that or not.

18.4.3 Creator — step endpoints
POST /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/steps

Create step.

PUT /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/steps/:stepId

Update step.

DELETE /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/steps/:stepId

Delete step.

POST /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/steps/reorder

Reorder steps.

That last one is important.
Do not try to fake ordering with ad hoc client hacks.

18.4.4 Creator — media endpoints
POST /api/media/upload-audio

Upload step audio.

POST /api/media/upload-image

Upload image.

POST /api/media/upload-video

Upload video.

DELETE /api/media/:mediaId

Optional if you adopt asset IDs early.

Your current wizard already points toward separate upload endpoints for audio/image handling.

18.4.5 Creator — routing endpoint
POST /api/routing/generate

Payload:

route profile
ordered coordinates

Response:

geometry
distance
duration

This should be used by the route-building stage in the creator wizard.

18.4.6 Creator — publish/review endpoints
POST /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/submit-review

For Curated mode.

POST /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/publish

For Open mode or approved content.

POST /api/me/visit-versions/:versionId/unpublish

Optional later, depending on governance.

Do not collapse submit and publish into one endpoint.
They are different lifecycle actions.

18.5 — Curated-mode governance endpoints

These are admin/control endpoints that make Controlled Mode real.

18.5.1 Admin — guides
GET /api/admin/guides

List guides.

POST /api/admin/guides

Create guide.

PUT /api/admin/guides/:guideId

Update guide/admin-controlled fields.

POST /api/admin/guides/:guideId/activate

Activate.

POST /api/admin/guides/:guideId/suspend

Suspend.

18.5.2 Admin — review queue
GET /api/admin/review-queue

List pending content reviews.

GET /api/admin/review-queue/:versionId

Review detail.

POST /api/admin/review-queue/:versionId/approve

Approve version.

POST /api/admin/review-queue/:versionId/reject

Reject version.

POST /api/admin/review-queue/:versionId/request-changes

Request changes.

This queue is one of the central operational tools in Curated mode.

18.5.3 Admin — libraries
GET /api/admin/libraries

List libraries.

POST /api/admin/libraries

Create library.

PUT /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId

Update library.

POST /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId/items

Add visit to library.

DELETE /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId/items/:itemId

Remove visit from library.

POST /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId/activate

Optional.

POST /api/admin/libraries/:libraryId/deactivate

Optional.

18.5.4 Admin — clients
GET /api/admin/clients

List clients.

POST /api/admin/clients

Create client.

PUT /api/admin/clients/:clientId

Update client.

POST /api/admin/clients/:clientId/activate

Optional.

POST /api/admin/clients/:clientId/deactivate

Optional.

18.5.5 Admin — access grants
GET /api/admin/access-grants

List grants.

POST /api/admin/access-grants

Create grant.

PUT /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId

Update grant.

POST /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId/activate

Activate grant.

POST /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId/deactivate

Deactivate grant.

POST /api/admin/access-grants/:grantId/revoke

Revoke grant.

These endpoints are core to your B2B model.

18.5.6 Admin — contracts
GET /api/admin/guide-contracts

List contracts.

POST /api/admin/guide-contracts

Create contract.

PUT /api/admin/guide-contracts/:contractId

Update contract.

This keeps rights management out of spreadsheets and chaos.

18.6 — Open-mode expansion endpoints
These should not be launch-critical, but the architecture should anticipate them
18.6.1 Public signup
POST /api/auth/register

Public signup.

This may exist but be disabled by governance flag in Curated mode.

That is the correct one-system approach.

18.6.2 Public guide self-signup
POST /api/guides/apply

Or

POST /api/me/guide-profile

Depending on your chosen flow.

Again:

same endpoint family
policy decides whether this is allowed
18.6.3 Public guide discovery
GET /api/guides

List/search discoverable guides.

Not a launch priority, but the family should exist later.

18.6.4 Consumer entitlements / purchases later
POST /api/entitlements/purchase

Later if pay-per-view becomes real.

GET /api/me/entitlements

Useful both earlier and later.

This belongs under access/entitlement logic, not buried in visits.

18.7 — Background jobs / async work
Critical distinction: what must not happen inline

You do not want certain operations slowing down user-facing requests.

Recommended async job categories:

18.7.1 Media processing jobs
audio validation/transcoding later
image resizing/thumbnails
video processing later
18.7.2 Routing jobs

Early routing can be sync if fast enough, but later:

route caching
route regeneration
provider fallback
may need background support
18.7.3 Package preparation jobs

This is one of the strongest candidates for async execution.

When user adds to watchlist:

request package
assemble manifest
prepare asset list
maybe sign token/package metadata

Do not overdo this at first, but keep the path open.

18.7.4 Token housekeeping jobs
expire old tokens
revoke invalid ones
detect stale packages
auto-delete inactive package records or flag them
18.7.5 Notification dispatch jobs

Notifications should be event-driven and queued, not directly fired from random endpoints.

18.7.6 Analytics rollup jobs
top visits
guide stats
completion rate summaries
client usage summaries

Do not compute everything live in admin dashboards.

18.8 — Central service rules
These are not endpoints, but they must exist as reusable service logic

There are a few core functions you must centralize. If you duplicate them across controllers, you will create contradictions.

18.8.1 Access resolution service

This is critical.

Pseudo-logic:

canUserAccessVisit(user, visit):
    if visit is public and policy allows it:
        return true
    if user has active entitlement for visit:
        return true
    if user has active entitlement for a library containing visit:
        return true
    if user has active access grant for a library containing visit:
        return true
    return false

This must be centralized.

18.8.2 Visibility resolution service

Separate from access.

A visit may:

exist
be published
still not be visible in a given discovery context

So visibility logic needs its own centralized resolution:

visit status
version status
visibility mode
operating mode flags
18.8.3 Playback eligibility service

Before playback:

check entitlement/access
check package/token if offline
resolve preview/full-access state
resolve start conditions

This should not be reimplemented in multiple places.

18.8.4 Preview eligibility service

Because you added free segments and preview videos, you need clear logic:

can anonymous user see guide intro?
can anonymous user see visit intro?
can user play first step only?
can web stream preview but not full content?

This logic must be centralized too.

18.9 — Minimal launch implementation order
This is the real execution path

Do not build routes in random order. Build them in dependency order.

Wave A — Core identity and content
auth/login/logout/me
guide profile read
creator visit CRUD
creator version CRUD
step CRUD
media upload
routing generate

This gets content into the system.

Wave B — Discovery and consumption
discovery search
visit preview
visit detail
likes
follows
playback start/heartbeat/complete
activity endpoints
reviews

This gets the visitor experience alive.

Wave C — Offline/watchlist
watchlist CRUD
package request
token refresh
package state reporting

This gives your product its stronger travel-use edge.

Wave D — Curated governance
admin guides
review queue
libraries
clients
access grants
contracts

This makes Curated mode commercially operational.

Wave E — Notifications/reports/offers
reports
notifications
partner offers safe-zone surfacing

Do not prioritize offers over core value. That would be stupid.

18.10 — Hard truth on backend scope

You now have enough defined to overbuild massively.

That is the danger.

If you try to implement:

full entitlement sophistication
advanced notification targeting
package orchestration
moderation tooling
guide contracts
partner offers
all at once, you will slow yourself down badly.

The correct discipline is:

define everything
build only what unlocks the next layer

That is why the implementation waves above matter.

18.11 — Frozen backend principles
Principle 1

One modular monolith backend first.

Principle 2

One set of route families, regardless of operating mode.

Principle 3

Curated vs Open behavior is controlled by governance/policy, not separate APIs.

Principle 4

Access, visibility, playback eligibility, and preview eligibility must each be centralized services.

Principle 5

Async work should handle media, notifications, package prep, and rollups—not complicate normal request flows.

Step 18 frozen output
Frozen backend module set
Auth / Identity
Guides
Visits / Versions / Steps
Media
Routing
Discovery
Libraries / Access
Watchlist / Offline
Playback / Activity
Reviews
Notifications
Reporting
Offers
Moderation / Admin
Frozen route families
/api/auth
/api/me
/api/guides
/api/visits
/api/discovery
/api/media
/api/routing
/api/watchlist
/api/offline
/api/playback
/api/reviews
/api/notifications
/api/reports
/api/admin/...
Frozen implementation wave order

A → content creation
B → visitor discovery/consumption
C → offline/watchlist
D → curated governance
E → reports/notifications/offers

Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft — Step 17.1
Database schema draft — Step 17.2
Database schema draft — Step 17.3
Database schema draft — Step 17.4
Database schema draft — Step 17.5
Backend routes/modules implementation plan complete
What is now fully complete

You now have, in sequence:

Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan

That is a full product and system backbone.

The right next move

At this point, there are three sane directions:

Option 1 — Turn this into a single polished canonical document

Best for reference and future branching.

Option 2 — Move into implementation artifacts

For example:

SQL schema draft
Express/Node route tree
backend folder structure
API contract draft
Option 3 — Return to UI and produce page-by-page exact layouts/components

Best if you want to keep designing frontend before coding.

The strongest immediate move is Option 1, because your work is now broad enough that fragmentation becomes a risk.

let's go for option 1 now, to save our progression here. then we will pick option 3

Done. I consolidated it into a frozen canonical document in the canvas.

Next we move to option 3: the page-by-page exact frontend layouts/components, starting with the visitor side, then creator, then admin.

ok, let's do that

Added to the canonical document.

The next clean step is to go one level deeper and specify the visitor pages in exact detail, starting with the most important one:

Discover — Map

Then:

Discover — List
Preview Card
Full Visit Page
Playback Page

After that, we do the creator pages, then admin pages.

i'm following you, let's do that

Good. We start with the page that matters most.

Step 19 — Visitor Page Exact Spec
Page 1: Discover — Map
Progress tracker
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Page-by-page frontend architecture added to canonical doc
Current
Visitor exact page specs
Page 1: Discover — Map
Next
Discover — List
Visit Preview Card
Full Visit Page
Playback Page
Remaining visitor pages
Creator exact pages
Admin exact pages
19.1 — Role of this page

This is the main acquisition page of the entire module.

If this page is weak:

visits won’t be opened
guides won’t be discovered
playback won’t start
the app will feel empty or confusing

So this page must optimize for one thing:

fast, intuitive discovery of guided visits

Not feature overload.
Not decoration.
Not storytelling.
Discovery.

19.2 — Main functional goals

A visitor landing on this page must be able to do all of this quickly:

understand where they are searching
search by keyword, place, guide, or theme
see visits on a map
switch to list view without losing context
tap a visit marker
understand the visit in a few seconds
open details or start playback

That is the job.

19.3 — Exact page layout
Global page structure
┌────────────────────────────────────┐
│ A. Top Search / Context Frame      │
├────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                    │
│ B. Map Canvas                      │
│                                    │
│   - user marker                    │
│   - visit markers                  │
│   - optional offer markers later   │
│                                    │
│                      C. Floating    │
│                         Utility     │
│                         Controls    │
│                                    │
│                                    │
│        D. Preview Card Overlay     │
│                                    │
├────────────────────────────────────┤
│ E. Bottom Discover Control Frame   │
└────────────────────────────────────┘
19.4 — Frame A: Top Search / Context Frame

This is the command layer of the page.

Exact contents
Row 1 — Main search row

Contains:

global search bar
filter button
optional notification shortcut later
Row 2 — Context row

Contains:

location mode chip
active filters chips if any
maybe lightweight result context text
19.4.1 Search bar exact behavior
Placeholder

Use something like:

Search tours, places, guides...

Not:

“Search”
“Type here”
vague empty placeholders

It must teach usage.

19.4.2 Search bar visual structure

Inside the field:

left search icon
text input
right clear button when text exists

The field should be prominent but not oversized.

19.4.3 Filter button

Placed to the right of the search bar.

Behavior

Tap → open filters bottom sheet.

Visual logic

Must remain visible at all times on this page.

19.4.4 Location mode chip

This is critical because your search logic depends on location context.

It should appear under the search bar and display one of these states:

State A — Near me active
📍 Near me
State B — Fixed selected location
📍 Paris, France
State C — Search area / manual map context later
📍 Searching this area

The user must always understand:
where results are being resolved

That prevents confusion.

19.4.5 Active filter chips

If filters are active, show them as chips in the same lower strip.

Examples:

History
< 2h
Walking
4★+

Each chip should be removable directly.

That matters for speed.

19.5 — Search suggestions dropdown

This belongs visually to the top frame.

Trigger

Typing in the search bar.

Exact structure
Search Suggestions
------------------
Locations
- Paris, France
- Paris, Texas

Guides
- Maria López
- John Doe

Themes / Visits
- Street art
- Roman history
- Hidden alleys
Behavior rules
If location selected
location chip updates
map recenters
results refresh
If guide selected
search query updates
map/list dataset refreshes
no forced recenter unless guide query resolves to location-specific results later
If theme/visit selected
filter/query updates
no accidental recentering

This is the clean solution you needed earlier.

19.6 — Frame B: Map Canvas

This is the main visual surface.

Its job

The map is not decoration. It is the real browsing surface.

It must show:

where the user is
where visits are
what can be explored nearby or in the chosen area
Exact contents
1. User marker

Shown when GPS available and permitted.

2. Visit markers

Each marker represents a visit starting point.

3. Marker clustering later

Not required in first exact layout spec, but the space must allow it.

4. No route shown by default

Important.
Do not clutter the map by drawing routes for all visible visits.

Only selected visit state should later surface route-related info.

19.6.1 Marker design logic

Markers should visually indicate that they are:

discoverable
tappable
tourism-related
distinct from user location

Do not overdesign with tiny unreadable icons.

19.6.2 Marker states
Default

Normal unselected marker.

Hover/selected

Highlighted marker.

Saved/liked later optional

Could slightly differ, but not necessary yet.

Offer markers later

Must be visually different from visit markers.

This distinction is very important.

19.7 — Frame C: Floating Utility Controls

These are map utility actions placed over the map.

Exact controls for v1
1. Recenter on me

A floating round button.

2. Possibly map orientation control later

Not necessary on Discover initially.

3. Search this area prompt later

Appears only after manual pan/zoom logic is introduced.

Placement

Typically right side, mid-to-lower map area, above bottom control frame and outside preview-card collision area.

Do not clutter this zone.

19.8 — Frame D: Preview Card Overlay

This is the page’s conversion surface.

It appears anchored over the lower part of the map when a marker is selected.

Default state

Hidden.

Open state

Visible with smooth upward motion.

Exact card structure
Section 1 — Hero
rectangular image
wide enough to feel immersive
not too tall to block the map excessively
Section 2 — Title + guide identity
visit title
guide photo
guide name
guide rating
Section 3 — Quick facts
visit rating
duration
distance
transport icons
emergency proximity icons
Section 4 — Themes
1 to 3 main theme chips visible
more can be hidden behind “+”
Section 5 — Actions
Play
Like
Open details
Add to Watchlist in app
Action hierarchy
Primary

Play

Secondary

Open details

Tertiary

Like / Watchlist

That hierarchy must remain visually obvious.

Interaction rules
Tap outside card

Close card.

Swipe up

Open full visit page.

Tap Play

Start playback entry logic.

Tap Open details

Navigate to visit detail page.

19.9 — Frame E: Bottom Discover Control Frame

This is separate from the app-wide bottom navigation.

It sits above or integrated with the lower zone of the page logic.

Exact contents
1. View toggle
Map | List

This must be obvious and easy.

2. Optional result summary

Could show:

number of visible results
active location scope

Keep this subtle.

19.10 — Interaction states of the page

This page must support these exact states cleanly:

State 1 — Initial loading
search bar visible
map placeholder/skeleton
no broken flicker
State 2 — Near me, no query
GPS anchored
visits displayed
State 3 — Fixed location selected
location chip updated
map centered there
visits displayed there
State 4 — Query active
suggestions may appear
results filtered
State 5 — Filters active
chips visible
results narrowed
State 6 — Marker selected
preview card open
selected marker highlighted
State 7 — No results
map still visible
no-results guidance visible
State 8 — No GPS permission
map still usable
location prompt shown
no dependency on forced permission

This is important: the page must still work without GPS.

19.11 — Empty and error states
19.11.1 No results

Show a compact overlay or inline panel:

No tours found here.
Try changing filters or searching another area.

Actions:

clear filters
explore popular destinations later
19.11.2 No location permission

Show a non-blocking prompt:

Enable location to discover nearby tours.

Action:

enable location

But still allow:

city search
guide search
map browsing
19.11.3 Weak network on web

Light message only, no nagging:

Limited experience on web. Use the app for offline access.

This should not hijack the page.

19.12 — Navigation rules
From Discover Map, user can go to:
Discover List
Preview Card
Visit Detail
Playback
Saved
Activity
Profile
Filters
Search results suggestions
Back-navigation logic

If user goes:

Discover Map → Visit Detail → back

They should return to:

same map position
same filters
same query
ideally same selected marker context if feasible

This is critical for a quality browsing experience.

19.13 — Performance rules

This page must stay light.

Rules
do not render too many markers
do not load full visit details for every marker
lazy-load preview details when marker selected
debounce search input
persist state locally in memory/router state

If this page becomes heavy, the entire app will feel bad.

19.14 — What must not be on this page

Do not pollute this page with:

long editorial content
social feed behavior
guide biography blocks
ads inside the main map flow
too many floating buttons
auto-opening popups unrelated to user action

This page must stay focused.

19.15 — Frozen exact spec for Page 1
Page

Discover — Map

Core frames
Top Search / Context Frame
Map Canvas
Floating Utility Controls
Preview Card Overlay
Bottom Discover Control Frame
Core actions
search
filter
recenter
open marker
switch to list
open visit
play
like
add to watchlist
Core states
near me
fixed location
query active
filters active
preview open
no results
no GPS

This page is now locked at the exact-layout level.

Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Page-by-page frontend architecture
Visitor exact page specs — Page 1 complete
Discover — Map
Current next step
Visitor exact page specs — Page 2
Discover — List
After that
Visit Preview Card
Full Visit Page
Playback Page
Remaining visitor pages
Creator exact pages
Admin exact pages

Continuing to the next page is the right move.

continue please

Good. Page 2 is now locked in the canonical doc.

Visitor Page 2 — Discover: List

Frozen at exact-layout level with:

shared top search/context frame
list controls frame
results list frame
preview sheet behavior
bottom discover control frame
Core rules locked
same dataset as map
same search logic as map
same filter persistence as map
same preview logic as map
guide identity strongly visible
title remains the primary text anchor
no clutter, no separate product feel

Next is the most important component after the two Discover pages:

Visitor Page 3 — Visit Preview Card / Preview Sheet

This is the real conversion surface.

let's go!

Good. This is the most critical UI element in your entire product.

Step 20 — Visitor Page Exact Spec
Page 3: Visit Preview Card / Preview Sheet
Why this matters (no fluff)

This component decides:

whether a visit gets opened
whether playback starts
whether guides get discovered
whether your content converts

If this is weak → your whole platform underperforms.

20.1 — Role of the Preview

This is not a mini detail page.

This is a decision surface.

It must answer in < 3 seconds:

Is this worth doing right now?
20.2 — Where it appears

This is a shared component, used in:

Entry points
From Map marker tap
From List card tap
Later: possibly from Saved / Activity / Guide profile
20.3 — Component behavior type

You have two valid UX patterns:

Option A — Bottom anchored card (recommended)
appears from bottom
partially covers map/list
expandable
Option B — Full sheet
slides up covering most of screen

👉 You already implicitly designed Option A.
👉 Keep Option A.

Because:

preserves context
allows quick browsing
supports rapid comparison
20.4 — Exact layout structure
┌──────────────────────────────┐
│ (A) Hero                    │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (B) Title + Guide           │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (C) Quick Facts             │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (D) Themes                  │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (E) Actions                 │
└──────────────────────────────┘

No extra sections.
No clutter.
No scrolling overload.

20.5 — Section A: Hero
Contents
main image (or video thumbnail later)
Rules
must feel attractive immediately
not too tall → do not hide all context
no text overlay clutter in v1
20.6 — Section B: Title + Guide Identity
Layout
[Visit Title]

[Guide Photo]  Guide Name   ★ Rating
Rules
Title
1–2 lines max
strong visual weight
no truncation mid-word
Guide identity
photo (small but visible)
name
rating

👉 This is critical:
Guide identity must be visible here, not hidden deeper.

Because:

builds trust
builds follow behavior
differentiates content
20.7 — Section C: Quick Facts
Layout (single compact row or two rows max)
★ 4.7   •   1h 30   •   2.3 km   •   🚶‍♂️   •   🏥 nearby
Elements
Required
visit rating
duration
distance
Optional but recommended
main transport icon
emergency proximity icon
Rules
do not overload
must be readable in 1 glance
icons must be obvious, not cryptic
20.8 — Section D: Themes
Layout
[History] [Architecture] [+2]
Rules
show 1–3 themes max
overflow compressed
no long text
chips must be tappable later (optional)
20.9 — Section E: Actions

This is the most important section.

Layout
[ PLAY ]   [♡]   [Details]   [ + Watchlist ]
20.9.1 Action hierarchy
Primary (dominant)

PLAY

Must be:

visually strongest
large tap target
impossible to miss
Secondary

Details

Purpose:

open full visit page
Tertiary

Like
Watchlist

Smaller, icon-based or subtle buttons.

20.9.2 Action behaviors
PLAY

Triggers:

start logic
location check
playback
DETAILS
navigates to full visit page
LIKE
toggles state instantly
no confirmation
WATCHLIST
app only
triggers download logic
20.10 — Interaction behavior
Open
tap marker/card → card slides up
Close
tap outside
swipe down
Expand
swipe up → full visit page
Switch selection
tap another marker → update card instantly
20.11 — States of the preview card
State 1 — Default open
all sections visible
actions active
State 2 — Loading
skeleton UI
fast load required
State 3 — Partial data
still render card
do not block UI
State 4 — Liked
heart filled
State 5 — Watchlisted
visual indicator
20.12 — Special behaviors
20.12.1 Map synchronization

When preview is open:

selected marker must be highlighted
map remains visible behind
20.12.2 List synchronization

When opened from list:

card overlays list
returning keeps scroll position
20.12.3 Quick comparison flow

User should be able to:

tap marker A → preview
tap marker B → preview updates instantly

No lag. No reflow chaos.

20.13 — What must NOT be in preview

Do not add:

long descriptions
full step list
reviews section
heavy media gallery
guide biography block
ads

This is where most products fail.

If you overload this, you destroy speed.

20.14 — Conversion optimization rules

This card must maximize:

1. Clarity

What is this?

2. Trust

Who created it?

3. Effort estimation

How long / how far?

4. Immediate action

Play now

If any of these is unclear → conversion drops.

20.15 — Performance constraints
must load extremely fast
do not fetch full visit payload
only fetch:
preview data
minimal guide info
minimal metrics

Everything else → lazy-loaded on full page

20.16 — Edge cases
No image
fallback placeholder
never break layout
No rating
hide rating cleanly
no empty stars
No distance
hide gracefully
Weak connection
still open quickly
degrade image quality if needed
20.17 — Mobile vs Web differences
Mobile app
full interaction
watchlist enabled
offline possible
Web
no watchlist
limited actions
possible “open in app” hints later
20.18 — Frozen exact spec summary
Component

Visit Preview Card / Sheet

Structure
Hero
Title + Guide
Quick Facts
Themes
Actions
Core actions
Play
Details
Like
Watchlist
Core behaviors
fast open/close
expandable
synchronized with map/list
instant switching between items
Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Page-by-page frontend architecture
Visitor Page 1 — Discover Map
Visitor Page 2 — Discover List
Visitor Page 3 — Preview Card complete
Next step (critical)
Visitor Page 4 — Full Visit Page

This is where:

the decision becomes commitment
the guide identity deepens
the visit gets validated before play

And it must be designed carefully or you’ll lose users right before conversion.

Say continue and we go there.

continue please

Good. This is the second most critical page after the preview.

Step 21 — Visitor Page Exact Spec
Page 4: Full Visit Page
Why this page matters

This page sits right before commitment.

If it fails:

users hesitate
users leave
playback never starts

Its job is not discovery anymore.
Its job is:

confirm the decision and trigger action
21.1 — Role of the page

This page must answer clearly:

Is this visit worth doing right now?

And immediately enable:

Play

Everything else is secondary.

21.2 — Core user goals

On this page, the user wants to:

understand what the visit is about
trust the guide
estimate effort (time/distance)
visualize the route
check basic content structure
decide quickly to start or save
21.3 — Exact page layout
┌──────────────────────────────┐
│ (A) Hero                    │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (B) Guide Block             │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (C) Core Facts              │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (D) Themes                  │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (E) Description             │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (F) Route Preview Map       │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (G) Steps Overview          │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (H) Reviews Preview         │
├──────────────────────────────┤
│ (I) Primary Actions         │
└──────────────────────────────┘

Scrollable page.

No tab fragmentation.

21.4 — Section A: Hero
Contents
hero image (or video thumbnail later)
Rules
visually attractive
not too tall
must not push core actions too far below
21.5 — Section B: Guide Block

This is critical.

Layout
[Photo]  Guide Name   ★ Rating   (Follow)
Additional optional elements
short tagline or credibility hint
Rules
must be highly visible
must not be buried
must be tappable → opens guide profile

👉 This is where trust is built.

21.6 — Section C: Core Facts
Layout
★ 4.7   •   1h 30   •   2.3 km   •   🚶‍♂️
Start: Old Town Square
End: Charles Bridge
Contents
rating
duration
distance
transport mode
start area
end area
Rules
readable in 1–2 seconds
no clutter
no unnecessary labels
21.7 — Section D: Themes
Layout
chips
[History] [Architecture] [Hidden spots]
Rules
max ~5 visible
no long sentences
purely categorical
21.8 — Section E: Description
Structure
Short description (always visible)
2–3 lines max
Expandable long description
collapsible
Rules
no walls of text
must not push Play too far down
must remain optional reading
21.9 — Section F: Route Preview Map

This is essential.

Contents
mini map
route line
start marker
end marker
step points (optional simplified)
Interaction
Tap map

→ expands or opens a larger map view (optional later)

Rules
must visually confirm the route
must reassure user about path coherence
21.10 — Section G: Steps Overview
Structure

Vertical list:

1. Old Town Square
2. Astronomical Clock
3. Hidden alley...
...
Optional elements
small icons
short subtitle
Rules
do not show full content
do not overload
must show progression and structure

👉 This builds confidence:
“This is a structured experience.”

21.11 — Section H: Reviews Preview
Structure
★ 4.7 (128 reviews)

"Great way to discover the city..."
Rules
keep compact
show credibility
not full review page
Interaction

Tap → open full reviews page (later)

21.12 — Section I: Primary Actions

This is the conversion block.

Layout
[ PLAY ]
[♡ Like]   [ + Watchlist ]   [ Share ]
21.12.1 Action hierarchy
Primary

PLAY

Must:

be sticky or always reachable
be visually dominant
Secondary
Like
Watchlist
Tertiary
Share
21.12.2 Sticky behavior (important)

You should strongly consider:

👉 Sticky Play button

As user scrolls:

Play remains visible at bottom

This dramatically improves conversion.

21.13 — Play interaction logic

When user presses Play:

Case A — Near start

→ start immediately

Case B — Not near start

Show popup:

You are not near the starting point.

[Start anyway]
[Guide me there]
[Cancel]
21.14 — Web vs App behavior
App
full experience
Watchlist enabled
offline ready
Web
no Watchlist
limited playback (preview or restricted)
optional prompt to install app
21.15 — Navigation rules
Entry
from preview card
from saved
from guide profile
Exit
back → return to previous context
map state preserved
list state preserved
21.16 — Performance rules
load essential data first:
hero
title
guide
core facts
lazy-load:
steps
reviews
route details if heavy
21.17 — What must NOT be here

Do not add:

long blog-style content
excessive media galleries
ads in main flow
unrelated guide content
complex navigation tabs

This page must remain focused.

21.18 — Conversion logic

This page must maximize:

1. Trust

Guide + ratings

2. Clarity

What / where / how long

3. Structure

Steps overview

4. Visual reassurance

Route map

5. Action

Play

If any of these is weak → drop-off increases.

21.19 — Edge cases
No reviews
hide section cleanly
No distance
hide field
No route available
must not happen in normal flow
fallback to step markers
Weak connection
degrade gracefully
do not block page
21.20 — Frozen exact spec summary
Page

Full Visit Page

Sections
Hero
Guide Block
Core Facts
Themes
Description
Route Map
Steps Overview
Reviews Preview
Actions
Core actions
Play (dominant)
Like
Watchlist
Share
Core behaviors
sticky Play recommended
fast scan → quick decision → play
Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Page-by-page frontend architecture
Discover — Map
Discover — List
Preview Card
Full Visit Page complete
Next step (critical)
Visitor Page 5 — Playback Page

This is where the actual product experience happens.

If this is not perfect:

everything before becomes meaningless

We now move into:

GPS logic
player behavior
map interaction
step progression
media handling

Say continue and we go deep.

please continue

Good. This is the core of your product.

Everything before this page is just setup.

Step 22 — Visitor Page Exact Spec
Page 5: Playback Page (Guided Experience)
22.1 — Role of this page

This is where your product actually delivers value.

If this page is weak:

the experience feels broken
users won’t come back
guides won’t get recognition
your platform collapses into “just another app”

Its job is:

guide the user smoothly through a real-world experience
22.2 — Core principles (non-negotiable)
Principle 1 — Map is the environment

Not decoration.

Principle 2 — Audio is the driver

Not visuals.

Principle 3 — Interaction must be minimal

User is walking, not browsing.

Principle 4 — System must adapt to reality

GPS, movement, interruptions.

Principle 5 — No friction

No confusion, no overload.

22.3 — Exact page layout
┌──────────────────────────────────┐
│ (A) Map Background               │
│                                  │
│     route + markers + GPS        │
│                                  │
│        (B) Context Overlays      │
│                                  │
│                                  │
│                                  │
│                                  │
├──────────────────────────────────┤
│ (C) Player (Compact / Expanded)  │
└──────────────────────────────────┘

No tabs.
No page switching.
Everything happens here.

22.4 — Frame A: Map Background
Contents
1. Route line
clearly visible
current segment highlighted
2. Step markers
past steps (dimmed)
current step (highlighted)
future steps (neutral)
3. User GPS marker
always visible
updates smoothly
4. Current segment highlight
reinforces direction
22.4.1 What must NOT be shown
all media thumbnails at once
unnecessary UI clutter
irrelevant markers
22.5 — Frame B: Context Overlays

These are dynamic and appear only when needed.

Types
1. Step media icons
appear near current step
tap to open media
2. Skip suggestion popup

Triggered when user is closer to a later step.

You are near the next point.
Skip ahead?

[Skip] [Stay]
3. GPS warning
GPS signal is weak

Non-blocking.

4. Safety warnings (transport-based)

For driving/cycling:

Pay attention to the road.
Audio will continue.
5. Token warning
Access expired. Please reconnect.
22.6 — Frame C: Player

This is the control layer.

Two states
State 1 — Compact

Default.

State 2 — Expanded

Detailed interaction.

22.7 — Compact Player
Layout
[⏮] [▶ / ⏸] [⏭]

Step Title
Progress bar
Contents
play/pause
previous
next
step title
progress bar
expand button
Behavior
always visible
minimal interaction
does not block map
22.8 — Expanded Player
Layout
Step Title
Step X of Y

[Progress bar]

[⏮] [▶ / ⏸] [⏭]

Description (short)

[Media actions]

[Controls: autoplay toggle, etc.]
Contents
Step identity
title
index
Playback controls
play/pause
previous
next
replay step
Description
short text only
Media triggers
images
video
text panels
quiz (later)
Controls
autoplay toggle
manual mode
Behavior
swipe down → compact
swipe up → full view (optional later)
22.9 — Playback logic
22.9.1 Start logic

Already defined:

If near start

→ start

If not near

→ popup

22.9.2 Step progression
Default: Autoplay ON

When:

user enters step radius

→ next step triggers automatically

Manual mode

User must:

press next
22.10 — Step triggering system
Trigger condition
distance(user, step) < trigger_radius
Required behaviors
1. Entering radius

→ start step

2. Leaving radius early

→ do nothing

3. Re-entering

→ do not replay automatically

22.11 — Skip logic (important)
Case: user reaches a later step

Show popup:

You are closer to a later point.
Skip ahead?

[Skip] [Stay]
Rules
only forward skipping
no backward auto rewind
user remains in control
22.12 — Audio behavior
Rules
Autoplay ON
next audio starts automatically
Autoplay OFF
user must trigger next
Interruptions
If video starts
prompt:
Play video sound?
If another audio starts
stop previous
switch cleanly
22.13 — Media handling
Types
Images
open lightbox
zoom allowed
Text
bottom sheet
Video
modal or full screen
Quiz (later)
overlay card
Rule

Media must:

support experience
not interrupt flow aggressively
22.14 — GPS behavior
Required
Smooth updates
no jitter
Fallback
if GPS weak → continue playback
Important

Do NOT:

block playback if GPS is imperfect
22.15 — Map orientation
Modes
North-up (default safe)
Direction-up (optional)

Switch available in player/settings.

22.16 — Completion logic

When last step ends:

→ show completion sheet

22.17 — Completion sheet
Layout
You finished the tour 🎉

[Rate ★★★★★]

[Follow Guide]

[More from this guide]

[Nearby tours]
Purpose
retention
conversion
guide promotion
22.18 — Edge cases
User skips multiple steps
allow sequential skip
User starts mid-route
allow play
respect manual start
User loses connection
continue offline if possible
Token expires mid-visit
warn but do not break immediately
22.19 — What must NOT happen

Do not:

interrupt audio unnecessarily
force UI popups mid narration
overload screen
require constant interaction
confuse user with complex controls
22.20 — Performance rules
pre-load next step audio
cache current step
minimal network dependency
smooth UI transitions
22.21 — Core UX goal

User should feel:

guided, not managing an app
22.22 — Frozen exact spec summary
Page

Playback Page

Frames
Map background
Context overlays
Player (compact/expanded)
Core behaviors
GPS-based progression
autoplay default
manual override
forward skip suggestion
minimal UI friction
Core actions
play/pause
next/previous
expand/collapse
open media
toggle autoplay
Progress tracker update
Completed
Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Page-by-page frontend architecture
Discover — Map
Discover — List
Preview Card
Full Visit Page
Playback Page complete
Next step

We now finish the visitor side remaining pages:

Saved (Liked / Watchlist / Guides)
Activity (In Progress / Recent / Completed)
Guide Profile (deep version)
Notifications
Profile / Settings

Then we move to:
👉 Creator exact pages
👉 Admin exact pages

Say continue and we finish the visitor side.

Continue

Good. We finish the visitor side now. No shortcuts.

Step 23 — Visitor Pages Exact Spec
Remaining Pages: Saved, Activity, Guide Profile, Notifications, Profile

These are retention and control layers.
If they’re weak → users don’t come back.

23.1 — Page 6: Saved Hub
Role

This is where intent and loyalty live.

It must answer:

what did I like?
what did I save for later?
who do I follow?
23.1.1 — Structure
Top Tabs:
[ Liked ]   [ Watchlist ]   [ Guides ]

No extra tabs. No clutter.

23.1.2 — Tab 1: Liked
Purpose

Lightweight memory of interest.

Layout
List of visit cards

Same card logic as Discover List (lighter version).

Card contents
thumbnail
title
guide (photo + name)
rating
duration
Like (active state)
open preview
Actions
tap → preview card
unlike → immediate removal
Rules
no download state here
no heavy UI
fast scroll
23.1.3 — Tab 2: Watchlist

This is critical (offline + conversion).

Layout
Storage summary (top)
---------------------
List of watchlist items
Storage summary

Displays:

total storage used
number of downloaded visits
optional cleanup shortcut later
Watchlist item structure
Thumbnail
Title
Guide
Status badge
Actions
Status badges (important)
queued
downloading
ready
expired
corrupted

Must be visually distinct.

Actions per item
Play
Remove
Re-download (if needed)
Rules
must clearly distinguish:
downloaded vs not downloaded
must not confuse user about availability
must support offline confidence
23.1.4 — Tab 3: Guides
Purpose

Follow-based retention.

Layout
List of guide cards
Guide card contents
profile photo (larger than elsewhere)
name
rating
short tagline (optional)
number of visits
follow/unfollow button
Optional indicator
“New visit available” badge
Actions
tap → guide profile
unfollow
23.1.5 — Rules for Saved Hub
fast loading
no heavy data fetch
no duplication of full visit details
consistent preview behavior
23.2 — Page 7: Activity Hub
Role

This is continuity.

It answers:

where was I?
what did I do?
what should I resume?
23.2.1 — Structure
Tabs:
[ In Progress ]   [ Recent ]   [ Completed ]
23.2.2 — Tab 1: In Progress
Purpose

Resume quickly.

Layout
Large cards
Card contents
thumbnail
title
guide
progress bar
“Step X of Y”
resume button
Rules
max 1–3 items typically
very prominent
must feel like “continue now”
23.2.3 — Tab 2: Recent
Purpose

Short-term memory.

Layout

List of recent visits.

Card contents
thumbnail
title
guide
last played time
Actions
open preview
resume
23.2.4 — Tab 3: Completed
Purpose

History + re-engagement.

Layout

List of completed visits.

Card contents
thumbnail
title
guide
completion indicator
rating status
Actions
revisit
rate (if not done)
explore more from guide
23.2.5 — Rules for Activity Hub
must feel alive
must be clean
must not become a cluttered history log
23.3 — Page 8: Guide Profile (Deep Version)
Role

This is the creator identity hub.

It must:

build trust
create attachment
drive follow
drive multi-visit consumption
23.3.1 — Layout
(A) Header
(B) Bio
(C) Specialization
(D) Visits List
23.3.2 — Section A: Header
Contents
large profile photo
guide name
rating
follower count
follow button
Rules
must feel human
must feel trustworthy
follow button must be obvious
23.3.3 — Section B: Bio
short intro
expandable
23.3.4 — Section C: Specialization
themes
languages
regions
23.3.5 — Section D: Visits List
Layout

Same as Discover List (filtered by guide)

Rules
this is the main content
must be easy to browse
must reinforce consistency of style
23.3.6 — Optional future sections
collections
featured tours

Not needed now.

23.4 — Page 9: Notifications Center
Role

Controlled re-engagement.

23.4.1 — Layout
List of notifications
23.4.2 — Notification item structure
icon/type
title
short message
timestamp
23.4.3 — Types
new visit from followed guide
recommendation
resume reminder
token warning
system message
later: offers
23.4.4 — Actions
tap → open target (visit/guide/etc.)
swipe → dismiss
23.4.5 — Rules
no spam
no clutter
must feel useful
23.5 — Page 10: Profile / Settings
Role

User control center.

23.5.1 — Layout
(A) Account
(B) Playback Settings
(C) Notifications
(D) Language / Behavior
(E) Storage Shortcut
23.5.2 — Section A: Account
user identity
email/login
logout
23.5.3 — Section B: Playback Settings
autoplay (on/off)
map orientation
future safety toggles
23.5.4 — Section C: Notifications
guide updates
recommendations
system alerts
nearby suggestions
23.5.5 — Section D: Language / Behavior
language
accessibility (future)
23.5.6 — Section E: Storage
shortcut to watchlist storage management
23.5.7 — Rules
simple
no advanced clutter
no deep nested menus
23.6 — Visitor Side Completed
What is now fully defined

You now have exact layout specs for ALL visitor pages:

Discover — Map
Discover — List
Preview Card
Full Visit Page
Playback Page
Saved Hub
Activity Hub
Guide Profile
Notifications
Profile / Settings
Progress tracker update
Completed
Full visitor experience (exact spec level)
Next step

Now we move to:

👉 Creator Pages — Exact Spec

This is where most products collapse because:

workflows become messy
creators get frustrated
content quality drops

We will define:

exact layout per stage
interaction logic
UX flow that actually produces high-quality visits

Say continue and we move to the creator side.

Continue

Good. Now we design the part that will make or break content quality.

Most platforms fail here. If the creator UX is bad → content is bad → users leave.

Step 24 — Creator Pages Exact Spec
Creator Experience (End-to-End)
24.1 — Core philosophy (non-negotiable)

Creator flow must feel like:

building an experience

NOT:

filling a form
Core constraints
must be guided
must be visual
must be map-centric
must minimize friction
must prevent bad content structure
24.2 — Creator Shell
Top navigation
[ My Visits ]   [ Create ]   [ Analytics ]   [ Profile ]
Rules
persistent navigation
no hidden complexity
no deep nesting
24.3 — Page 1: My Visits Dashboard
Role

Control center for creators.

Layout
(A) Header
(B) Create CTA
(C) Status Filters
(D) Visit List
24.3.1 — Header
title
optional stats summary later
24.3.2 — Create CTA

Prominent button:

+ Create New Visit

Must be obvious.

24.3.3 — Status Filters
[ Draft ] [ Under Review ] [ Published ] [ Inactive ]
24.3.4 — Visit Card (management card)
Contents
title
status badge
last edited
quick route info
quick stats (optional)
actions:
Edit
Preview
Analytics
Rules
must allow fast access
must not overload with data
must feel actionable
24.4 — Page 2: Create/Edit Visit Flow

This is a multi-stage guided flow.

Stages
1. Core Definition
2. Route Building
3. Step Content
4. Experience Review
5. Publish / Submit
Global layout for all stages
(A) Stage Header / Progress
(B) Main Content Area
(C) Navigation Footer
24.5 — Stage 1: Core Definition
Role

Fast entry into creation.

Layout
Fields
Title
Short description
Themes (chips selector)
Language
Main transport mode
Estimated duration (optional initial)
Rules
minimal friction
no overload
user should reach stage 2 quickly
24.6 — Stage 2: Route Building (CRITICAL)

This is the most important creator step.

Layout
(A) Map (dominant)
(B) Step Timeline Panel
(C) Route Controls
(D) Footer Navigation
24.6.1 — Map

Must allow:

click to add step
search to place step
GPS capture (mobile)
drag markers (optional later)
24.6.2 — Step Timeline Panel

Shows:

1. Step A
2. Step B
3. Step C
Actions
reorder steps (drag/drop)
select step (sync with map)
delete step
24.6.3 — Route Controls
Generate route
Change transport mode
Recalculate route
Critical rule

Selecting a step:
→ highlights on map
→ scrolls into view in timeline

Bidirectional sync is mandatory.

24.7 — Stage 3: Step Content
Role

Add meaning to each location.

Layout
(A) Step Selector
(B) Step Editor
(C) Media Controls
(D) Footer Navigation
24.7.1 — Step Selector
list of steps
clickable
shows completion status
24.7.2 — Step Editor

Fields:

Title
Audio (upload or record)
Description (short)
Location label
24.7.3 — Media Controls
images upload
video link/upload
text blocks
quiz (later)
24.7.4 — Advanced metadata
trigger radius
accessibility flags
transport hints
emergency proximity
24.7.5 — Preview flags (important)
mark step as preview/free
typically first step
Rules
audio must be primary
UI must not overwhelm
encourage completion
24.8 — Stage 4: Experience Review
Role

Simulate the experience.

Layout
(A) Route Overview Map
(B) Step Summary
(C) Validation Panel
(D) Simulation Controls
(E) Footer Navigation
24.8.1 — Route Overview
map with full route
step markers
24.8.2 — Step Summary
list with completion indicators
24.8.3 — Validation Panel

Shows:

missing audio
missing steps
weak structure warnings
24.8.4 — Simulation
preview playback
step-by-step simulation
Rule

Creator must feel:

this is what my user will experience
24.9 — Stage 5: Publish / Submit
Role

Finalize and release.

Layout
(A) Summary
(B) Status Panel
(C) Action Buttons
Actions
Curated mode
Submit for review
Open mode
Publish
Rules
no ambiguity
clear state after action
24.10 — Creator Analytics Page
Role

Motivation + feedback.

Layout
(A) KPIs
(B) Charts
(C) Top Visits
KPIs
plays
completion rate
average rating
followers gained
Rules
simple
no overwhelming charts
actionable insights
24.11 — Creator Profile Page
Role

Public identity management.

Layout
(A) Profile Header
(B) Bio
(C) Specialization
(D) Media
Contents
photo
name
bio
languages
themes
regions
presentation video
Rules
must align with visitor-side profile
must remain simple
24.12 — Creator UX failure points (avoid)

Do NOT:

overload forms
hide map interactions
split flow across too many pages
require too many mandatory fields early
create unclear publishing states
24.13 — Creator side complete
You now have full creator flow:
Dashboard
Create/Edit flow (5 stages)
Analytics
Profile
Progress tracker update
Completed
Visitor side (full exact spec)
Creator side (full exact spec)
Next step

Final layer:

👉 Admin / Control Pages — Exact Spec

This is where:

your business model lives
curated mode works
platform control happens

Say continue and we finish the system.

Continue

Done. The canonical document now includes the exact-layout visitor, creator, and admin page specs, so the progression is saved.

Where we are now

We’ve completed, in order:

Frozen master document
Screen-by-screen frontend architecture
Database schema draft
Backend routes/modules implementation plan
Exact-layout page architecture for:
visitor pages
creator pages
admin pages
Best next step

The cleanest next move is to go one level deeper into page-level component specifications, starting with the highest-priority page:

Discover — Map

We would define:

exact components
each button/control
each popup and drawer
interaction states
visibility rules
mobile behavior
implementation-facing structure

That is the right bridge between architecture and actual UI building.

sounds good, i'm following you

Good. Now we move from architecture → buildable UI.

This is where most people lose clarity. We won’t.

Step 25 — Component-Level Spec
Page: Discover — Map (Implementation Layer)
Goal of this step

Turn this page into something you can actually code without guessing.

We define:

exact components
hierarchy
state logic
interactions
what talks to what
25.1 — Component tree (real structure)
DiscoverPage
 ├── TopBar
 │    ├── SearchInput
 │    ├── FilterButton
 │    ├── LocationChipRow
 │    └── ActiveFiltersRow
 │
 ├── MapContainer
 │    ├── MapCanvas (Leaflet)
 │    ├── UserMarker
 │    ├── VisitMarkersLayer
 │    ├── ClusterLayer (later)
 │    └── MapOverlayControls
 │         └── RecenterButton
 │
 ├── PreviewCard (conditional)
 │
 ├── BottomBar
 │    └── ViewToggle (Map/List)
 │
 ├── SearchSuggestions (overlay)
 │
 └── FilterDrawer (bottom sheet)

This is your actual UI tree.

25.2 — TopBar (Component breakdown)
25.2.1 SearchInput
Props
{
  value,
  onChange,
  onClear,
  onFocus,
  suggestionsOpen
}
Internal elements
left icon (🔍)
input field
clear button (❌ when text exists)
Behavior
debounce input (300ms recommended)
triggers suggestions
does NOT trigger full search immediately
25.2.2 FilterButton
Props
{
  activeFiltersCount,
  onClick
}
Behavior
opens FilterDrawer
badge if filters active
25.2.3 LocationChipRow
Props
{
  mode: "near_me" | "fixed" | "search_area",
  label,
  onClick
}
Behavior
shows current context
clicking may:
reset to "near me"
open location selector later
25.2.4 ActiveFiltersRow
Props
{
  filters,
  onRemoveFilter
}
Behavior
horizontal scroll chips
remove instantly updates dataset
25.3 — MapContainer

This is your core engine.

25.3.1 MapCanvas
Tech

Use:

Leaflet (as already started in your project)
Responsibilities
render map
handle pan/zoom
expose viewport (bounds)
Emits
onViewportChange(bounds)
onMapClick()
25.3.2 UserMarker
Props
{
  lat,
  lng,
  accuracy
}
Behavior
smooth movement
accuracy circle optional
25.3.3 VisitMarkersLayer
Props
{
  visits,
  selectedVisitId,
  onMarkerClick
}
Each marker
{
  id,
  lat,
  lng,
  rating,
  theme
}
Behavior
clicking marker:
onMarkerClick(visitId)
25.3.4 MapOverlayControls

Contains:

RecenterButton
onClick → center map on user
25.4 — PreviewCard (CRITICAL)
Props
{
  visit,
  isOpen,
  onClose,
  onPlay,
  onOpenDetails,
  onLike,
  onWatchlist
}
Internal structure
Hero
Title + Guide
QuickFacts
Themes
Actions
Behavior
Open
setSelectedVisit(visitId)
Close
setSelectedVisit(null)
Switch between markers
onMarkerClick → update visit instantly

NO re-mount flicker.

25.5 — BottomBar
ViewToggle
Props
{
  currentView: "map" | "list",
  onSwitch
}
Behavior
switches route/page
preserves state
25.6 — SearchSuggestions (Overlay)
Props
{
  query,
  results,
  onSelect
}
Structure
Locations
Guides
Themes / Visits
Behavior
onSelect
if (type === "location") → recenter map
if (type === "guide") → filter dataset
if (type === "theme") → apply filter
25.7 — FilterDrawer (Bottom Sheet)
Props
{
  filters,
  onApply,
  onReset,
  onClose
}
Internal sections
themes
duration slider
distance slider
rating filter
transport mode
Behavior
Apply
updateFilters()
refetchDiscovery()
25.8 — State model (IMPORTANT)

You need a clean state or you’ll break everything.

Core state
{
  query,
  filters,
  locationMode,
  selectedLocation,
  viewportBounds,
  visits,
  selectedVisitId,
  suggestionsOpen,
  isFilterOpen
}
Derived state
selectedVisit = visits.find(v => v.id === selectedVisitId)
25.9 — Data flow
Search flow
User types → debounce → fetch suggestions
Discovery flow
query + filters + location + bounds
→ API call
→ update visits
Marker click flow
marker click → setSelectedVisitId
→ PreviewCard opens
Filter flow
update filters → API call → update visits
25.10 — API contract (for this page)
Discovery endpoint
GET /api/discovery/search
Params
{
  q,
  lat,
  lng,
  bounds,
  filters,
  page,
  limit
}
Response (minimal)
[
  {
    id,
    title,
    lat,
    lng,
    rating,
    duration,
    distance,
    guide: {
      id,
      name,
      rating,
      photo
    },
    themes,
    hero
  }
]
Preview endpoint
GET /api/visits/:id/preview

Only fetch when needed.

25.11 — Performance rules (strict)

You must enforce:

DO
lazy load preview
debounce search
limit markers
reuse state
DO NOT
fetch full visit data in list/map
re-render whole map on every change
block UI on API
25.12 — Edge-case handling
No GPS
locationMode = "none"

→ still allow search

No results
visits.length === 0

→ show overlay message

API failure

→ show retry state
→ do NOT crash map

25.13 — What you now have

This is no longer conceptual.

You now have:

UI tree
components
props
state model
data flow
API contract

👉 This is directly implementable.

Progress tracker update
Completed
Full architecture
Full page specs
Discover Map component spec
Next step

We continue with:

👉 Discover — List (component-level)

Then:

Preview Card (component deep spec)
Visit Page (component spec)
Playback (complex system spec)

If you skip this layer, your implementation will drift.